********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. These risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or which we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. We operate in the capital, commodities, and automotive markets. The capital markets include asset managers, investment banks, commercial banks, insurance companies, exchanges, trading firms, and issuers; the commodities markets include producers, traders and intermediaries within energy, petrochemicals, metals & steel and agriculture; and the automotive markets include manufacturers, suppliers, dealerships, service shops and consumers. Certain risk factors are applicable to certain of our individual segments while other risk factors are applicable Company-wide. Cybersecurity, Technology and Innovation Risks Our size, scale and role in the global markets increases our risk for cyber attacks and other cyber-security risks. Our information systems and networks and those of our third-party service providers are exposed to risks related to cybersecurity and protection of confidential information, including material non-public information, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. • Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential, sensitive and other types of data and information in our information systems and networks and those of our third-party service providers, including our vendors. Cyber threats continue to further evolve and continue to be more difficult to detect and successfully defend against. As a result, cyber threats have in the past and may in the future defeat the measures that we or our third-party service providers take to anticipate, detect, avoid, or mitigate such threats. • Our businesses often have access to material non-public information concerning the Company’s customers, including sovereigns, public and private companies, and other third parties around the world, the unauthorized disclosure of which could affect the trading markets for such customers’ securities and could damage such customers’ competitive positions. Some of our own products and services also include material non-public information that could affect trading markets. Unauthorized disclosure of this information as a result of cyber attacks and other unauthorized occurrences on our information systems and networks could cause our customers to lose faith in our ability to protect confidential information and therefore cause customers to cease doing business with us. • The cyber threats we and our third-party service providers (including our vendors) face are rapidly evolving and are becoming increasingly sophisticated and include denial of service attacks, ransomware, spyware, phishing/smishing/vishing attacks, business compromise attacks, employee errors, negligence or malfeasance, the use of malicious codes or worms, payment fraud, and other unauthorized occurrences on, or conducted through, our or our third-party service providers’ (including our vendors’) information systems and networks, originating from a wide variety of sources, including criminals, terrorists, nation states, financially motivated actors, internal actors, and external service providers. The cyber risks the Company faces range from cyber attacks common to most industries, to more sophisticated and targeted attacks, including attacks carried out by state-sponsored actors, intended to obtain 13 Table of Contents unauthorized access to certain information or information systems or networks due in part to our prominence in the global marketplace, such as our ratings on debt issued by sovereigns and corporate issuers, our impending methodology changes in our benchmarks businesses, or the composition of our indices. Our third-party service providers, including our vendors, are also the subject of a variety of cyber attacks, including attacks carried out by state-sponsored actors. • We and our third-party service providers, including our vendors, experience cyber attacks, data breaches and other cyber threats of varying degrees on a regular basis. The volume of such attacks, breaches and threats have increased over the years and we expect that volume to continue to increase. Breaches of our or our third-party service providers’ (including our vendors’) information systems and networks may cause material interruptions or malfunctions in our or such third-party’s websites, applications or data processing, or may compromise the confidentiality and integrity of material information regarding us, our business or our customers. Although cyber attacks and data breaches on the Company and its third-party service providers have not had a material adverse effect on the Company, there can be no assurance that there will not be a material adverse effect in the future. • In the ordinary course of business, we are exposed to vulnerabilities in widely deployed third-party software. While such vulnerabilities have not resulted in a material adverse effect on the Company, they require us to devote time and resources to remediation on a regular basis. Notwithstanding our efforts, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer a material adverse effect resulting from vulnerabilities in widely deployed third-party software. • Misappropriation, improper modification, destruction, corruption or unavailability of our data and information, including personal data, due to cyber incidents, attacks or other security breaches, or the perception of such an occurrence, could damage our brand and reputation, result in litigation, regulatory actions, sanctions or other statutory penalties, lead to loss of customer confidence in our security measures and reliability, which would harm our ability to retain customers and gain new ones, result in financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us, and lead to increased expenses related to addressing or mitigating the risks associated with any such incidents. We may be required to expend significant resources to mitigate the impact of any errors, interruptions, delays or cessations of service and we may have insufficient recourse against our third-party service providers, including our vendors. Additionally, our failure to timely or accurately communicate cyber incidents to relevant parties, including as a result of a failure of our third-party service providers, including our vendors, to inform us of incidents impacting their information systems or networks in a timely manner could result in regulatory or litigation risk, and reputational harm. • We devote significant resources to maintain and regularly update our systems and processes that are designed to protect the security of our information systems, software, networks and other technology assets and the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information belonging to the enterprise and our customers, clients and employees. However, such measures may be circumvented or become obsolete, and additional measures that we take to prevent or mitigate cyber incidents may be expensive or ineffective. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our security measures will be sufficient to protect our information or information systems and networks. • While we conduct cyber due diligence during the acquisition process, following the completion of acquisitions, we have identified weaknesses and vulnerabilities in acquired entities’ information systems and networks, which expose us to unexpected liabilities or make our own information systems or networks more vulnerable to a cyber attack. Such weaknesses and vulnerabilities have been, and may continue to be identified as we complete integration of IHS Markit Ltd. information systems and networks. • Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The markets in which we operate continuously change to adapt to customer needs. Our inability to innovate and compete with new or enhanced products and services of our competitors could impact our profitability. We operate in highly competitive markets that continuously change to adapt to customer needs. We could experience material threats to our existing businesses from the rise of new competitors due to the rapidly changing environment in which we operate. In order to maintain a competitive position, we invest in innovation, new offerings and enhancements, including new ways to deliver our products and services. These new or enhanced offerings resulting from our investments sometimes do not, and may not in the future, achieve market acceptance, profit or the level of profitability that we expect or have experienced historically. Our ability to develop, adapt, or implement new and improved processes and technology may materially adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. • The rapid change of technology is a key feature of all of the markets in which we operate. To succeed in the future, we will need to deploy improved processes and technology to innovate, design, develop, assemble, test, market, and support new products and enhancements to our existing products in a timely and cost-effective manner. • Innovation and constant development in support of new products and enhancements to existing products calls for the implementation of new and improved processes and technologies that require related change management efforts. While we employ a certain level of internal and external resources to mitigate the risks associated with implementing process and technology improvements, new processes and technologies that are still in development tend to be subject to more risks than established processes and technologies. For instance, certain of our new processes require manual 14 Table of Contents data entry or collection before they can be automated, which subjects them to greater risk of human error. We may also face unexpected challenges in execution that may require more management attention than expected, thus diverting management time and energy from other businesses. The foregoing and other unforeseen factors could also result in additional commitments of financial resources and business disruptions. • We are transitioning our technology to a cloud-based infrastructure, which is complex, time consuming, and involves substantial expenditures. Our utilization of cloud services is critical to developing and providing products and services to our customers, scaling our business for future growth, accurately maintaining data and otherwise operating our business; any such implementation involves risks inherent in the conversion to a new system, including loss of information and potential disruption to our normal operations. We may discover material deficiencies in our design or implementation or maintenance of the new cloud-based systems that could adversely affect our business. Disruptions to either the outsourced systems or the communication links between us and the outsourced supplier negatively affect our ability to operate our data systems, and impair our ability to provide services to our customers. • Enhancing existing products and developing new products often requires effective collaboration across various divisions, functions and business lines of the Company. Ineffective or insufficient collaboration across divisions, functions and business lines decreases our ability to expand geographically, enhance products, innovate, increase sales, leads to brand confusion and may result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Increased availability of free or relatively inexpensive information sources may reduce demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In recent years, more public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information have become available, particularly through the Internet, and advances in public cloud computing and open source software is expected to continue. Moreover, generative artificial intelligence (“AI”) may be used in a way that significantly increases access to publicly available free or relatively inexpensive information. Public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information can reduce demand for our products and services. Demand could also be reduced as a result of cost-cutting initiatives at certain companies and organizations. Although we believe our products are enhanced by our analysis, tools, delivery mechanisms and applications, if a large number of smaller customers or a critical number of larger customers choose to use public sources as a substitute for our products or services, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our approach to AI may not be successful, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. AI is an emerging technology that is expected to fundamentally change the way data is gathered, produced, protected, licensed, processed, and consumed. Given the importance of data to our products and services, AI is becoming an increasingly important part of our business and industry.  We have established a Company-wide AI strategy to drive our approach to data protection, licensing and AI integration in our processes, products and services.  We have made significant investments in various AI initiatives. However, the AI landscape is complex and rapidly evolving, and new and enhanced laws and regulations, governmental or regulatory scrutiny, competition from established or emerging companies, litigation, ethical concerns, cybersecurity concerns, intellectual property concerns, or other complications could adversely impact our ability to protect our data and intellectual property, to develop and offer products and services that effectively use AI, to compete with other AI products or services, or to improve efficiency of existing products or services through the effective use of AI to remain competitive, or could increase our burden and cost of research, development and regulatory compliance.  For instance, competitors may deploy AI in ways that make processing of information relatively inexpensive or free, which could significantly reduce demand for our data.  Additionally, we may be unable to effectively license or otherwise protect our data from unintended use by AI.  For additional risks related to intellectual property rights, see the risk factor entitled “ Our ability to protect our intellectual property rights could impact our competitive position .”  The development, testing and deployment of AI systems requires continued investment and may materially increase the cost profile of our offerings due to the nature of the computing cost involved in such systems. In addition, the number of approaches to integrating and commercializing AI is currently large, and many of those approaches may fail to gain market acceptance or become obsolete as AI continues to evolve. At this time, we are unable to predict which offerings will ultimately be successful.  Notwithstanding our investments, our products and services may become less marketable or less competitive, or potentially obsolete if either our approach to integrating AI into our products and services fails to gain market acceptance or our approach to protecting our data and intellectual property is ultimately inadequate.  Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Social and ethical issues relating to the use of new and evolving technologies, such as AI, in our offerings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Many of our offerings use new and evolving technologies, such as AI.  These new and evolving technologies often present social and ethical risks and challenges that could affect their adoption, and therefore our business.  For example, the use of AI could lead to harmful consequences such as accuracy issues, unintended biases or discriminatory outputs.  If we enable or offer solutions that draw controversy due to their perceived or actual impact on society or if we fail to properly remediate any social or ethical issues that may arise in our offerings, we may experience brand or reputational harm, competitive harm, legal liability 15 Table of Contents or loss of public confidence, or our products and services may become less marketable or less competitive.  For our AI products and services to be competitive in the evolving and continually developing AI landscape, we must apply resources and make investments to secure such competitiveness and to ensure that our AI products and services are developed and implemented in a way to minimize unintended and harmful impacts. In addition, our failure to continue development and adoption of ethical and transparent policies and procedures related to AI could negatively impact our reputation and customer confidence.  Any of these social or ethical issues could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our use of open source software could result in litigation or impose unanticipated restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products and services. We use open source software in our technology, most often as small components within a larger product or service. Open source code is also contained in some third-party software we rely on. The terms of many open source licenses are ambiguous and have not been interpreted by United States (“U.S.”) or other courts. These licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products and services, licenses the software on unfavorable terms, or requires us to re-engineer our products and services or take other remedial actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We could also be subject to suits by parties claiming breach of the terms of licenses, which could be costly for us to defend. Our ability to protect our intellectual property rights could impact our competitive position. • We consider many of our products and services to be proprietary. Failure to protect our intellectual property adequately could harm the value of and revenue generated by such assets as well as our reputation and affect our ability to compete effectively. Businesses we acquire may also have intellectual property portfolios which increase the complexity of managing our intellectual property portfolio and protecting our competitive position. • Our products contain intellectual property delivered through a variety of digital and other media. Our ability to achieve anticipated results depends in part on our ability to defend our intellectual property rights against infringement and misappropriation. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by inadequate or changing legal and technological protections for intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions and markets. For example, the legal landscape with respect to AI is rapidly evolving, and we do not yet know whether intellectual property laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate will enable us to effectively protect our intellectual property rights from unintended use by AI.  Additionally, we do business in a number of countries included on the Priority Watch List maintained by the Office of the United States Trade Representative which are currently thought to afford less protection to intellectual property rights generally than some other jurisdictions. The lack of strong patent and other intellectual property protection in jurisdictions in which we operate increases our vulnerability regarding unauthorized disclosure or use of our intellectual property and undermines our competitive position.  In addition, even in jurisdictions where there are strong protections for intellectual property rights, our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights may be impacted by the number of competitors attempting to infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. • Our products also contain intellectual property of third-party sources. Any claims by third parties that we violated their intellectual property rights could result in termination of the relevant source agreement, litigation or reputational damage, or may require us to enter into royalty and licensing agreements on unfavorable terms or to stop selling or redesign affected products, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We rely heavily on network systems and the Internet and any failures or disruptions may adversely affect our ability to serve our customers. • Our products and services are delivered electronically, and our customers rely on our ability to process transactions rapidly and deliver substantial quantities of data on computer-based networks. Our customers also depend on the continued capacity, reliability and security of our electronic delivery systems, our websites and the Internet. • Our ability to deliver our products and services electronically may be impaired due to infrastructure or network failures, malicious or defective software, human error, natural disasters, service outages at third-party Internet providers or increased government regulation. Delays in our ability to deliver our products and services electronically may harm our reputation and result in the loss of customers. • In addition, a number of our customers entrust us with storing and securing their data and information on our servers. Although we have disaster recovery plans that include backup facilities for our primary data centers, our systems are not always fully redundant, and our disaster planning may not always be sufficient or effective. As such, these disruptions may affect our ability to store, handle and secure such data and information. Our operations and infrastructure may malfunction or fail, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 16 Table of Contents • Our ability to conduct business may be materially and adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located, including New York City, the location of our headquarters, and major cities worldwide in which we have offices. • This may include a disruption involving physical or technological infrastructure used by us or third parties with or through whom we conduct business, whether due to human error, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism, political unrest, war or otherwise. Our efforts to secure and plan for potential disruptions of our major operating systems may not be successful. • We rely on our information technology environment and certain critical databases, systems, applications and services (e.g. Amazon Web Services (“AWS”)) to support key product and service offerings. We believe we have appropriate policies, processes and internal controls to ensure the stability of our information technology, provide security from unauthorized access to our systems and maintain business continuity, but our business could be subject to significant disruption and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by unanticipated system failures, data corruption or unauthorized access to our systems. • The physical or technological infrastructure used by us or our third-party service providers can become obsolete or restrictive, unavailable, incompatible with future versions of our products, fail to be comprehensive or accurate, or fail to operate effectively, and our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to timely or effectively replace it. • We also do not have fully redundant systems for most of our smaller office locations and low-risk systems, and our disaster recovery plan does not include restoration of non-essential services. If a disruption occurs in one of our locations or systems and our personnel in those locations or those who rely on such systems are unable to utilize other systems or communicate with or travel to other locations, such persons’ ability to service and interact with our clients and customers may suffer. • We cannot predict with certainty all of the adverse effects that could result from our failure, or the failure of a third party, to efficiently address and resolve these delays and interruptions. A disruption to our operations or infrastructure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Legal and Regulatory Risks Exposure to litigation and government and regulatory proceedings, investigations and inquiries (including market studies) could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. • In the normal course of business, both in the U.S. and abroad, we and our subsidiaries are defendants in numerous legal proceedings and are often the subject of government and regulatory proceedings, investigations and inquiries (including market studies), as discussed under Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements under Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we face the risk that additional proceedings, investigations and inquiries (including market studies) will arise in the future. • Many of these proceedings, investigations and inquiries (including market studies) regularly relate to the activity of our Ratings, Indices, and Commodity Insights businesses. In addition, various government and self-regulatory agencies frequently make inquiries and conduct investigations into our compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including those related to our regulated activities, antitrust matters, and other matters, such as environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) matters. From time to time, we also face proceedings, investigations or inquiries related to tax matters. Enhancements to our products and services combined with evolving regulation requires us to continuously evaluate our regulatory and compliance obligations, and government and self-regulatory agencies may conduct investigations to determine whether our products and services subject us to additional regulations.  Any of these proceedings, investigations or inquiries (including market studies) impose additional expenses on the Company, require the attention of senior management, and could ultimately result in adverse judgments, damages, fines, penalties, activity restrictions, reduced demand for our products and services, or negative impacts on our cash flows, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. • In view of the uncertainty inherent in litigation, government and regulatory enforcement matters, and changing political sentiments, we cannot predict the eventual outcome of the matters we are currently facing or the timing of their resolution, or in most cases reasonably estimate what the eventual judgments or impact of activity restrictions may be. As a result, we cannot provide assurance that the outcome of the matters we are currently facing or that we may face in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. • As litigation or the process to resolve pending matters progresses, as the case may be, we continuously review the latest information available and assess our ability to predict the outcome of such matters and the effects, if any, on our consolidated financial condition, cash flows, business and competitive position, which may require that we record liabilities in the consolidated financial statements in future periods. • Risks relating to legal proceedings may be heightened in foreign jurisdictions that lack the legal protections or liability standards comparable to those that exist in the U.S. In addition, new laws and regulations have been and may continue to be enacted that establish lower liability standards, shift the burden of proof or relax pleading requirements, thereby increasing the risk of successful litigations against the Company in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions. These 17 Table of Contents litigation risks are often difficult to assess or quantify and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. • We may not have adequate insurance or reserves to cover these risks, and the existence and magnitude of these risks often remains unknown for substantial periods of time and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in the global privacy, data localization and data protection legislative, regulatory, and commercial environments in which we operate may materially and adversely impact our ability to collect, compile, use, and publish data and may impact our financial results. • We, and certain types of information we collect, compile, use, and publish, are subject to numerous U.S. federal and state laws and non-U.S. regulations governing the protection of personal and confidential information of our clients and employees in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Further, global privacy, data localization, data maintenance, data transfer and data protection legislation, regulatory, enforcement, and policy activity are rapidly and continually evolving and creating a complex regulatory compliance environment. There is also increasing concern among certain privacy and data protection advocates, government regulators, litigators, and the press regarding marketing and privacy matters as well as data protection, particularly as they relate to individual privacy, threats to personal information, and perceived national security interests. Costs and adaptation of our business practices to comply with and implement the increasing privacy-related and data protection, data maintenance and transfer restriction measures have been, and we expect will continue to be, significant, particularly as the laws and regulations across jurisdictions change frequently and sometimes conflict. In addition, such measures, as well as any associated inquiries or investigations or any other government actions, increase our operating costs and require significant management time and attention, and may result in negative publicity and subject us to costs that may harm our business, including fines or damages as well as demands or orders that we modify or cease existing business practices. • There has been increased public attention regarding the use of personal information and data transfer, accompanied by examinations of regulated entities, and legislation and regulations intended to strengthen data protection, information security and consumer and personal privacy. The law in these areas continues to develop and the changing nature and interpretations by courts around the world of privacy and data protection laws around the world, including in jurisdictions such as the U.S. (including in an increasing number of U.S. states), the European Union (the “EU”), the People’s Republic of China and India, could have a significant impact on our processing of personal and sensitive information of our employees, vendors and customers and other data, and in turn, our business practices. • Failure to comply with privacy and data protection requirements could result in significant penalties. The EU’s comprehensive General Data Privacy Regulation (“GDPR”), for example, is a comprehensive regulation applying across all EU member states, providing for penalties of up to the greater of €20 million or 4% of worldwide revenue, and the average GDPR penalties increased in 2023 compared to prior years. • We devote meaningful time and financial resources to compliance with current and future applicable international and U.S. privacy, cybersecurity, data protection and related laws and regulations. We have made, and expect to continue to make, capital investments and other expenditures to address cybersecurity preparedness and prevent future breaches, including costs associated with additional security technologies, personnel, experts and credit monitoring services for those whose data has been breached. Any such expenses that we incur in the future, which could be material, will impact our results of operations in the period in which they are incurred, but may not meaningfully limit the success of future attempts to compromise our information or information technology systems. • Continued privacy and data protection concerns may result in new or amended laws and regulations. Future laws and regulations with respect to the collection, compilation, use, and publication of information and consumer privacy could result in limitations on our operations, increased compliance or litigation expense, adverse publicity, or loss of revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. It is also possible that we could be prohibited from collecting or disseminating certain types of data, which could affect our ability to meet our customers’ needs or require changes in our processes, technologies, and data management. • We are also from time to time subject to, or face assertions that we are subject to, additional obligations relating to personal and other data by contract or due to assertions that self-regulatory obligations or industry standards apply to our practices. Future legislation, regulatory reform or policy changes, especially abrupt changes, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Future legislation, regulatory reform or policy changes, such as financial services regulatory reform, energy or commodity-specific regulation, including oil, regulations related to pricing providers, sustainability, credit rating data, data privacy, operational resilience and cyber security, tax regulations, AI, ESG, government-sponsored enterprise reform and increased infrastructure spending and significant changes in trade policy (including sanctions), could impact our business. There are currently a number of laws and regulations in jurisdictions in which we operate around the world that have recently been adopted but not yet implemented or have been proposed or are being considered to which we or our clients will or may become subject, but at this time their impact on our business and results of operations remains uncertain. Changes in legislation, regulation or policy increase the likelihood that we will fail to appropriately adapt to changes in our compliance obligations, 18 Table of Contents particularly when such changes happen abruptly, such as following a change in government. Any of the foregoing changes could increase our litigation and regulatory exposure, directly impact our results of operations and cash flows, adversely affect our ability to provide our products and services, or adversely impact the demand for our products and services. Such changes may also impact our business by creating increased volatility and uncertainty in the markets in which we operate. At this time, we cannot predict the scope or nature of these changes or assess what the overall effect of such potential changes could be on our results of operations or cash flows. Increasing regulation of our Ratings business in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere can increase our costs of doing business and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. • The financial services industry is highly regulated, rapidly evolving and subject to the potential for increasing regulation in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere. The businesses conducted by Ratings are regulated under the laws of various jurisdictions around the world, including the Credit Rating Agency Reform Act of 2006, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the EU’s credit rating agency regulation, and the U.K.’s credit rating agency regulation. • The U.S. Congress, the International Organization of Securities Commissions ("IOSCO"), the SEC, the European Commission, including through the European Securities Market Authority and the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”), as well as regulators in other countries in which Ratings operates, have reviewed the role of rating agencies and their processes and the need for greater oversight or regulations concerning the issuance of credit ratings or the activities of credit rating agencies, and they may conduct such reviews in the future. Other laws, regulations and rules relating to credit rating agencies are from time to time considered by local, national and multinational bodies and are likely to continue to be considered in the future, including, for example,  provisions seeking to reduce regulatory and investor reliance on credit ratings or to increase competition among credit rating agencies, provisions regarding remuneration and rotation of credit rating agencies, and liability standards applicable to credit rating agencies. Other laws, regulations and rules are being considered or are likely to be considered in the future that may impact ancillary and other services provided by Ratings in addition to its credit rating products and services, for example regulatory oversight regimes for ESG ratings providers such as the proposal for an EU regulation on the transparency and integrity of ESG rating activities. • These laws and regulations, and any other similar future rule-making, could result in reduced demand for credit ratings and/or significant increased costs, which we may be unable to pass through to customers. In addition, there may be uncertainty over the scope, interpretation and administration of such laws and regulations. We may be required to incur significant expenses and/or take actions inconsistent with our business objectives in order to comply with such laws and regulations and to mitigate the risk of fines, penalties or other sanctions. Legal proceedings could become increasingly lengthy and there may be increased uncertainty over and exposure to liability. It is difficult to accurately assess the future impact of legislative and regulatory requirements on our business and our customers’ businesses, and they may affect Ratings’ communications with issuers as part of the rating assignment process, alter the manner in which Ratings’ ratings are developed, affect the manner in which Ratings or its customers or users of credit ratings operate, impact the demand for our ratings or our other products and services and alter the economics of the credit ratings business. Each of these developments could materially increase the costs and legal risk associated with the issuance of our credit ratings or our other products and services and may have a material adverse effect on our operations, profitability and competitiveness, the demand for our credit ratings or our other products and services, and the manner in which our credit ratings are utilized. • Additional information regarding rating agencies is provided under Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Indices and Commodity Insights businesses are subject to a global evolving regulatory landscape, which has and may continue to cause increased operating obligations, exposure, compliance risk and costs of doing business, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. • In addition to the extensive and evolving U.S. laws and regulations, foreign jurisdictions have taken measures to increase regulation of the financial services and commodities industries. • Commodity Insights has aligned its operations with the Principles for Oil Price Reporting Agencies ("PRA Principles") issued by IOSCO and, as recommended by IOSCO in its final report on the PRA Principles, has aligned to the PRA Principles for other commodities for which it publishes benchmarks. Indices has taken steps to align its governance regime, control framework and operations with the Principles for Financial Benchmarks ("Financial Benchmark Principles") issued by IOSCO and engages an independent auditor to perform an annual reasonable assurance review of its adherence to the Financial Benchmark Principles. • Commodity Insights and Indices are subject to financial and commodity benchmark regulation in the EU (the “EU Benchmark Regulation”) and the U.K. (the “U.K. Benchmark Regulation”) as well as increasing benchmark regulation in other jurisdictions. Indices and Commodity Insights are both supervised by the Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets for the EU Benchmark Regulation. Indices is also supervised by the FCA for the U.K. Benchmark Regulation. Indices is also subject to the benchmark regulation in Australia under which it is required to and has obtained a license 19 Table of Contents from and is subject to the supervision of the Australian Securities and Investment Commission regarding its administration of the S&P ASX 200 index. • The EU's package of legislative measures called the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and Regulation (collectively "MiFID II") have applied in all EU Member States since 2018. MiFID II and potential subsequent amendments may result in changes to the manner in which Indices and Commodity Insights license their indices and price assessments, respectively, and could also have an indirect impact on the credit ratings and third-party research products offered by other divisions of the Company for use within the EU. MiFID II and the Market Abuse Regulation may impose additional regulatory burdens on the activities of Indices and Commodity Insights in the EU over time, but their impact on, and costs to, the Company have not yet been substantive. • The European Commission has adopted or proposed various options for regulatory intervention to address high energy prices including, among others, price limiting mechanisms on exchange traded gas products, the introduction of circuit breakers and the development of LNG import benchmarks. • These laws, regulations and principles have impacted our Commodity Insights’ and Indices’ businesses by increasing their operating obligations, exposure, compliance risk, and costs of doing business.  Such impacts may continue or get worse as the regulatory landscape continues to evolve, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our international business activities must comport with international trade restraints, including economic sanctions regulations administered by the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Controls, which could affect our ability to market and/or sell our products and services into certain countries where we do business. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations can result in significant fines and penalties and related material adverse effects on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. • As a global company, we are subject to international trade restraints, including economic and financial sanction laws and embargoes. These laws include prohibitions or restrictions on the sale or supply of certain products and services to embargoed or sanctioned countries, regions, governments, persons and entities. • Embargoes and sanctions laws are changing rapidly for certain geographies, including with respect to Iran, Russia, and Venezuela. These embargoes and sanctions laws have affected, and may in the future affect, our ability to continue to market and/or sell our products and services into these geographies and in turn adversely impact our revenue from such geographies. For example, in response to the ongoing military conflict between Russia and Ukraine, governments in the U.S., the EU, the U.K., Canada and others imposed financial and economic sanctions on certain industry segments and various parties in Russia and Belarus. We announced our suspension of commercial operations in Russia and Belarus in March 2022, which impacted revenue, particularly in Commodity Insights. • Additional international trade restraints may be promulgated at any time and may require changes to our operations and increase our risk of noncompliance. • Failure to comply with these laws and regulations can result in significant fines and penalties and related material adverse effects on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company has previously settled and paid fines in connection with such matters. We may become subject to liability or face reputational harm based on the use of our products by our clients. • Some of our products support the investment processes and other activities of our clients, which, in the aggregate, manage or own trillions of dollars of assets. The use of our products as part of such activities, including the investment process, from time to time exposes us to claims for significant dollar amounts by our clients or the parties whose assets are managed by our clients.  Such claims have not materially adversely affected us to date, but there can be no assurance that future claims will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. • The products we develop or license, and the proprietary methodologies, models and processes on which these products rely, from time to time contain undetected errors or defects, despite testing and/or other quality assurance practices. Moreover, many of our products use new and evolving technologies, such as AI, that may contain their own undetected errors or defects. For example, the AI used in our products could include undetected errors or defects that lead to harmful consequences such as accuracy issues, unintended biases or discriminatory outputs. Errors or defects may exist during any part of a product’s life cycle and may persist notwithstanding testing and/or other quality assurance practices. Ineffective or insufficient collaboration within the Company increases the risk that such errors or defects may not be detected. Deploying products containing such errors or defects may damage our reputation, and the costs associated with remediating such errors or defects may have an impact on our profitability. • Any claim relating to our products, even one in which the outcome is ultimately favorable to us, involves a significant commitment of our management, personnel, financial and other resources and could have a negative impact on our reputation. In addition, such claims and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Business and Operational Risks Changes in the volume of securities issued and traded in domestic and/or global capital markets, asset levels and flows into investment products, high interest rates, changes in interest rates and volatility in the financial markets, and volatility in the commodities markets impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. • Our business is impacted by general economic conditions and volatility in the U.S. and world commodity and financial markets. • Economic conditions and volatility across the globe are generally affected by negative or uncertain economic and political conditions. In addition, natural and man-made disasters, public health crises (e.g., pandemics), and military conflict, such as the ongoing military conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and Israel and Hamas, introduce volatility and uncertainty into the global capital and commodities markets and negatively impact general economic conditions. Volatile, negative or uncertain economic and political conditions in our significant markets typically undermine business confidence in our significant markets or in other markets, which are increasingly interdependent. Because we operate globally and have significant businesses in many markets, increased volatility or an economic slowdown in any of those markets typically adversely affects our results of operations.  For example, military conflicts typically result in adverse and uncertain economic conditions such as negatively impacting global demand for goods and services; causing supply chain disruptions; increasing costs for transportation, energy and other raw materials; and causing an increase in cyber security incidents. Such conditions typically result in increased volatility and disruption to the global economy and the markets in which we operate, thereby adversely impacting our results of operations. • Since a significant component of our credit-rating and issuance based revenue is transaction-based, and is essentially dependent on the number and dollar volume of rated debt securities issued in the capital markets, unfavorable financial or economic conditions that either reduce investor demand for rated debt securities or reduce issuers’ willingness or ability to issue rated debt securities reduce the number and dollar volume of debt issuances for which Ratings provides credit ratings. • Unfavorable financial or economic conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt or equity securities or reduce issuers’ willingness or ability to issue such securities negatively impact the revenue of certain business lines within Market Intelligence that are linked to debt and equity issuances. • Our Indices business is impacted by market volatility, asset levels or notional values of investment products based on our indices, and trading volumes of certain exchange traded derivatives. Volatile capital markets, as well as changing investment styles, among other factors, may influence an investor’s decision to invest in and maintain an investment in an index-linked investment product. • High or increasing interest rates or credit spreads, volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant political or economic events, defaults of significant issuers and other market and economic factors may negatively impact the general level of debt issuance, the debt issuance plans of certain categories of borrowers, the level of derivatives trading and/or the types of credit-sensitive products being offered, which impact our Ratings segment and portions of our Market Intelligence, Commodity Insights and Indices segments, and in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. • Our Commodity Insights business is impacted by volatility in the commodities markets. Such volatility in our key markets could cause reduced demand for our products, impacting our revenues and margins. Changes in commodity price references, whether price assessments, benchmarks or the related trading activity in physical commodities and commodities derivatives, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. • High or increasing interest rates, volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant political or economic events, and other market and economic factors may impact the supply and demand for new and used vehicles, which impacts our Mobility business. • Disruptions in the automotive supply chain impact production in the automotive industry and typically impact our Mobility business. • Any weakness in the macroeconomic environment, including due to recession, inflation, high or increasing interest rates and other factors, could constrain customer budgets across the markets we serve, potentially leading to a reduction in their employee headcount and a decrease in demand for our subscription-based products. • The foregoing factors generally affect our performance and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Inability to attract and retain key qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The development, maintenance, sale and support of our products and services are dependent upon the knowledge, experience and ability of our highly skilled, educated and trained employees. Accordingly, our business is dependent on successfully attracting, retaining and training talented employees in a highly competitive business environment. Our ability to attract and retain talented employees is dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions and compensation packages offered by companies competing for the same talent. While we offer competitive salary and benefit packages, intense competition for talent within our markets is driving difficulties in attracting and retaining skilled employees. If we are less 21 Table of Contents successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we are unable to attract or retain key employees, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services or achieve strategic goals may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions may not produce anticipated results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. • We have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions to strengthen our business and grow our Company. For example, we acquired ChartIQ on January 3, 2023, TruSight Solutions LLC on January 4, 2023, and Market Scan Information Systems, Inc. on February 16, 2023. Additionally, on May 2, 2023, we sold our Engineering Solutions business. Such transactions present significant challenges and risks, as the market for acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions is highly competitive, especially in light of industry consolidation, which may affect our ability to complete such transactions. • If we are unsuccessful in completing such transactions or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. • If such transactions are completed, the anticipated growth and other strategic objectives of such transactions may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected, and a variety of factors may adversely affect any anticipated benefits from such transactions. Our acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions face difficulties, including, but not limited to, the following: ◦ the process of integration being more expensive or requiring more resources than anticipated; ◦ an acquisition changing the composition of our markets and product mix, and difficulty gaining the skills necessary for such markets or products; ◦ delays or difficulties consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations, including issues in integrating financial reporting, information technology infrastructure, data and content management systems and product platforms, communications and other systems; ◦ delays or difficulties harmonizing corporate cultures, operating practices, management philosophies, employee development and compensation programs, internal controls, compliance programs and other policies, procedures and processes; ◦ assuming unintended liabilities; ◦ unexpected regulatory and operating difficulties and expenditures, including regulatory challenges that impact our ability to conduct due diligence; ◦ failure to maintain employee morale or retain key personnel of the current or acquired business; ◦ failure to retain existing business and operational relationships; ◦ continuing operational or financial obligations that arise under transition services agreements requiring significant management and operational resources that limit our ability to fully implement cost reduction and efficiency initiatives or other aspects of our transition plans, or divert the management’s focus from other business operations; ◦ difficulty coordinating geographically separate organizations, including consolidating offices; ◦ the impact of divestitures on our revenue growth being larger than projected due to greater dis-synergies or adverse effects on our overall product offerings than expected; ◦ divestitures requiring continued financial involvement in the divested business through continuing equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other financial obligations; ◦ incurring impairment charges or other losses related to divestitures; and ◦ diversion of management’s focus from other business operations. • The failure of acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions to perform as expected could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The markets in which we operate are intensely competitive, and our inability to successfully compete could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. • The markets for credit ratings, financial research, market data and solutions, index-based products, automotive data, commodities analytics and price assessments, ESG products and scores, and related news and information about these markets are intensely competitive. Our businesses compete domestically and internationally on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of their offerings, client service, reputation, price, geographic scope, range of products and technological innovation. • While our businesses face competition from traditional content and analytics providers (including exchanges), we also face competition from non-traditional providers, many of whom are our clients, such as asset managers, investment banks, private equity and technology-led companies that are adding content and analytics capabilities to their core businesses. • The competitive landscape may also experience consolidation in the form of mergers and acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic partnerships, which results in competitors that are better capitalized or that are able to gain a competitive advantage through synergies. 22 Table of Contents • In addition, in some of the countries in which our businesses operate, governments have, and may in the future, provide financial or other support to locally-based competitors (particularly credit rating agencies) and have, and may from time to time in the future, establish official credit rating agencies, credit ratings criteria, benchmarks or benchmark providers, or procedures for evaluating local issuers. • Changes in the markets in which we compete may drive us to lower the fees we charge for our products and services in order to remain competitive.  In addition, if we are not able to successfully compete with our competitors, we may be required to significantly reduce the costs for our products or services, or we may lose significant market share, revenue or customers, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, certain of our fees are based on the performance of our customers, and such fees are negatively impacted when our customers’ performance is down, including due to changes in their markets. A significant increase in operating costs and expenses could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. • Our major expenditures include employee compensation and capital investments. • We offer competitive salary and benefit packages to attract and retain the quality employees required to grow and expand our businesses. Compensation costs are influenced by general economic factors, including but not limited to changes in the cost of health insurance, post-retirement benefits, inflation, trends specific to the skill sets required for our workforce, and the amount of competition for qualified employees within our markets. • We make significant investments in information technology data centers and other technology initiatives and we cannot provide assurances that such investments will result in increased revenues. • We rely on data provided by third-party data suppliers for a variety of our products and we rely significantly on AWS to provide, develop and maintain our cloud infrastructure. We are facing increasing costs from our third-party service providers due to a number of reasons, including inflationary pressures and costs associated with the increasing complexity of the data we require. • Although we believe we are prudent in our investment strategies and execution of our implementation plans, there is no assurance as to the ultimate recoverability or effectiveness of these investments. • A significant increase in any of the operating costs and expenses mentioned above could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Consolidation of customers, reduced staffing levels of customers or reduced spending by customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. • Our businesses have a customer base which is largely comprised of members from the corporate, financial services, commodities and automotive industries. The consolidation of customers resulting from mergers and acquisitions across these industries can result in reductions in the number of firms and workforce which can impact the size of our customer base. • Our customers that strive to reduce their operating costs may seek to reduce their spending on our products and services. If a large number of smaller customers or a critical number of larger customers reduce their spending with us, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. • Alternatively, customers may use other strategies to reduce their overall spending on financial, commodity market and automotive products and services by consolidating their spending with fewer vendors, including by selecting other vendors with lower-cost offerings, or by self-sourcing their need for financial, commodity market and automotive products and services. If a significant portion of our customer base elects to consolidate their spending on financial, commodity market and automotive products and services with other vendors and not us or self-source their product and service needs, or if we lose a large portion of our business to lower priced competitors, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. • A material portion of our revenues in our Indices business is concentrated in some of our largest customers, who have significant assets under management in index-based funds (including exchange-traded funds) and other index-based investment products. A loss of a substantial portion of revenue from our largest customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we lose key outside suppliers of data and products or if the data or products of these suppliers have errors or are delayed, we may not be able to provide our clients with the information and products they desire. • Our ability to produce our products and develop new products is dependent upon the products of other suppliers, including certain data, software and service suppliers. Some of our products and their related value are dependent upon updates from our data suppliers and most of our information and data products are dependent upon continuing access to historical and current data. • Many of our suppliers are also our competitors, and they could change the terms of the data and products that they supply to us in order to gain competitive advantage against us, which could materially harm our business. • We utilize certain information and data provided by third-party sources in a variety of ways, including information gathered by market participants and large volumes of data from certain stock exchanges around the world. 23 Table of Contents • From time to time, the data from our suppliers has errors, is delayed, has design defects, is unavailable on acceptable terms or is not available at all.  While such issues have not materially adversely affected us to date, the future occurrence of any such issue could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. • The consolidation of our suppliers could result in reductions in the number of firms and workforce, which can impact the size of our supplier base, or an increase in fees charged by our suppliers, which can increase our operating costs. • Some of our agreements with data suppliers allow them to cancel on short notice. Termination of one or more of our significant data agreements or exclusion from, or restricted use of, or litigation in connection with, a significant data provider’s information could result in a substantial decrease of the available information for us to use (and offer our clients) and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Outsourcing certain aspects of our business could result in material financial loss, increased costs, regulatory actions and penalties, reputational harm, unauthorized access to our systems, system or network disruption and improper disclosure of confidential information. • We have outsourced certain functions to third-party service providers to leverage leading specialized capabilities and achieve cost efficiencies, and such functions may be further outsourced. From time to time, our third-party service providers do not perform to our standards, produce reliable results, perform in a timely manner, or perform at all. We also face the risk that our third-party service providers may fail to comply with legal requirements or maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary information. Failure of these third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, confidentiality, or other obligations to us could result in material financial loss, higher costs, regulatory actions and reputational harm. • Outsourcing these functions also involves the risk that the third-party service providers may not maintain adequate physical, technical and administrative safeguards to protect the security of our confidential information and data. Failure of these third parties to maintain these safeguards could result in unauthorized access to our systems or a system or network disruption that could lead to improper disclosure of confidential information or data, regulatory penalties and remedial costs. • AWS provides a distributed computing infrastructure platform for business operations, or what is commonly referred to as a “cloud” computing service. Currently, we run a significant amount of our computing on AWS. Given this, any disruption of or interference with our use of AWS would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. • We rely on the business infrastructure and systems of third parties with whom we do business and to whom we outsource the maintenance and development of operational and technological functionality, including our AWS “cloud” computing services. Our service providers could experience system breakdowns or failures, outages, downtime, cyber attacks, adverse changes to financial condition, bankruptcy or other adverse conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation. Thus, our plans to increase the amount of our infrastructure that we outsource to “the cloud” or to other third parties may increase our risk exposure. Our inability to successfully recover should we or our third-party service providers experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, damaged client relationships or legal liability. • Should we or our third-party service providers experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, hurricane, flood, civil unrest, protests, military conflict, terrorist attack, public health crisis (e.g., pandemic), security breach, cyber attack, data breach, power loss, telecommunications failure or other natural or man-made disaster, our ability to continue to operate will depend, in part, on the availability of our or our third-party service provider’s personnel, our or our third-party service provider’s office facilities and the proper functioning of our or our third-party service provider’s computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. Global climate change is resulting, and is projected to continue to result, in certain natural disasters and adverse weather, such as drought, wildfires, storms, sea‐level rise, flooding, heat waves, and cold waves, occurring more frequently or with greater intensity. In the event of any such disaster or other business continuity problem, we could experience operational challenges with regard to particular areas of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel, or we could be exposed to the operational challenges of our third-party service providers, over which we have no control, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. • We regularly assess and take steps to improve our existing business continuity plans and key management succession. However, a disaster on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and result in material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, damaged client relationships or legal liability. 24 Table of Contents Our reputation, credibility, and brand are key assets and competitive advantages of our Company and our business may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace. • Our reputation, credibility, and the strength of our brand are key competitive strengths. • Given our role in the financial, commodities and automotive markets, our ability to attract and retain customers is uniquely affected by external perceptions of our reputation, credibility, and brand. • We provide credit ratings, pricing and valuation services, benchmark products, ESG scores and indices, many of which depend on contributions or inputs from third parties or market participants. Our customers and other market participants expect us to be able to demonstrate that our products and services are produced independently and are not readily subject to manipulation. We believe our products and services are designed with appropriate methodologies, processes, and procedures to maintain independence and integrity; however, we may not be able to prevent third parties or market participants from working together or colluding to try to manipulate their inputs and thus the resulting outputs of our products and services. From time to time, we are involved in third-party investigations or litigation related to the markets and stakeholders our products and services serve. Any failures, negative publicity, investigations, or lawsuits that implicate the independence and integrity of our credit ratings, pricing and valuation services, benchmarks, and indices could result in a loss of confidence in the administration of these products and services and could harm our reputation and our business. • Negative perceptions or publicity could damage our reputation with customers, prospects, regulators, and the public generally, which in turn could negatively impact, among other things, our ability to attract and retain customers, employees and suppliers, as well as suitable candidates for acquisitions or other combinations.  For example, we may face negative perceptions or publicity with respect to our sustainability and corporate responsibility policies and practices or our ESG products, methodologies, or scores, including as a result of a failure to meet publicly disclosed ESG and climate-related targets or goals, or as a result of misalignment with evolving market standards, ESG regulations and codes of conduct or regulatory expectations.  In addition, we may face similar negative perceptions or publicity as a result of “anti-ESG” sentiment among certain stakeholders, including governmental authorities, regulators, shareholders and customers. • Our divisions are all actively engaged in analyzing and providing views on economic conditions, including assessing the impact of events that create volatility and economic uncertainty, such as the ongoing military conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and Israel and Hamas and tensions across the Taiwan Strait. Notwithstanding the care we take in carrying out our work, the views and assumptions we express, the conclusions we draw, the actions we take (including, but not limited to, rating actions, revising the composition of our indices, etc.), and the work our divisions produce are likely to be heavily scrutinized with the benefit of hindsight. We have faced significant regulatory and media scrutiny following prior periods of volatility and economic uncertainty. Such scrutiny has in the past and may in the future impact our reputation, brand and credibility and result in government and regulatory proceedings, investigations, inquiries and litigation. • Given our businesses are often privy to material non-public information concerning our customers, our data could be improperly used, including for insider trading by our employees and third-party vendors with access to key systems. We have experienced insider trading incidents involving employees in the past, and it is not always possible to deter misconduct by employees or third-party vendors. We take precautions to detect and prevent such activity, including training on insider trading policies for our employees, contractual obligations for our third-party vendors, and policies that require access restrictions for material non-public information, but such precautions are not guaranteed to deter misconduct. Any breach of our clients’ confidences as a result of employee or third-party vendor misconduct could harm our reputation. • Damage to our reputation, credibility, and brand could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Public health crises may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by a public health crisis, especially of an infectious disease like COVID-19. The steps governments take to prevent or contain such an event (such as travel restrictions, social distancing, quarantines, shelter in place orders or business shutdowns) may negatively impact our operations, or the operations of our suppliers or customers, or may limit our ability to interact with customers and effectively maintain and grow our operations, including through securing new subscriptions and renewals.  Public health crises may introduce volatility and uncertainty into the global financial and commodities markets and adverse general economic conditions. Risks posed to our businesses, financial condition and results of operations from volatility in the financial and commodities markets that could result from such an event are described in the risk factor above entitled “ Changes in the volume of securities issued and traded in domestic and/or global capital markets, asset levels and flows into investment products, high interest rates, changes in interest rates and volatility in the financial markets, and volatility in the commodities markets impact our business, financial condition or results of operations .”  Actions taken by governments to stabilize the markets and support economic growth may not be sufficient to address the market dislocations or avert severe and prolonged reductions in economic activity. The negative impact of a public health crisis on our clients could result in our products and services facing pricing pressure or delayed renewals, and challenges to new sales, which would in turn reduce revenue, ultimately impacting our results of operations. Moreover, if a public health crisis caused prolonged recessions in the U.S. and other major markets, our businesses would be materially and adversely 25 Table of Contents affected. Due to the uncertain nature of public health crises, we cannot predict the extent to which any such event would impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Climate change and the transition to renewable energy and a net zero economy pose operational, commercial and regulatory risks. The physical commodity and commodity derivative markets may be impacted by decisions by market participants and policy makers to address climate change. In addition, the transition to renewable energy and a net zero economy involves changes to consumer and institutional preferences around energy consumption, and the possible failure of our products or services to facilitate the needs of customers during the transition to renewable energy could adversely impact our business and revenues. Changing preferences, including as a result of shifting market or political sentiment, could also have an adverse impact on the operations or financial condition of our customers, which could result in reduced revenues from those customers. We are also subject to risks relating to new or heightened climate change-related regulations or legislation, which could impact us and our customers and result in increased regulatory, compliance or operational costs. We are also subject to reputational risks relating to the perception of whether or not we are facilitating a migration away from fossil fuels. The risks associated with climate change and the transition to renewable energy and a net zero economy are continuing to evolve rapidly, and we expect that climate change-related risks may increase over time. Our expansion into and investments in new markets may not be successful, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe there remains significant opportunity to expand our business into major geographic and product markets (including sustainability, private markets and the People’s Republic of China), and we are in the process of such expansion efforts. Expansion into new markets requires significant levels of investment and attention from management. There can be no assurance that these markets will develop as anticipated or that we will have success in these markets, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment spent to expand our business into these markets and may forgo opportunities in more lucrative markets, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to multiple risks associated with the global nature of our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. • The geographic breadth of our activities subjects us to significant legal, economic, operational, market, compliance and reputational risks. These include, among others, risks relating to: ◦ economic and political conditions around the world, ◦ inflation, ◦ high interest rates or fluctuation in interest rates, currency exchange rates or commodities markets, ◦ limitations that foreign governments may impose on the conversion of currency or the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-U.S. subsidiaries, ◦ differing accounting principles and standards, ◦ increases in taxes or changes in U.S. or foreign tax laws (for example, the Pillar Two international tax framework established by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, which includes a global minimum tax of 15%), ◦ potential costs and difficulties in complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations (including tax systems) administered by foreign government agencies, some of which may conflict with U.S. or other sources of law, ◦ changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements, including data localization requirements, ◦ the possibility of nationalization, expropriation, price controls, withdrawal of licenses to operate, and other restrictive governmental actions, ◦ competition with local rating agencies that have greater familiarity, longer operating histories and/or support from local governments or other institutions, and ◦ civil unrest, protests, terrorism, unstable governments, geopolitical uncertainties and legal systems, and other factors. Adverse developments in any of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. • Additionally, we are subject to complex U.S., European and other local laws and regulations that are applicable to our operations abroad, including trade sanctions laws, anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, anti-money laundering laws, and other financial crimes laws. Our internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs related to these topics are not always effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies and violating applicable laws and regulations. Violations of such laws could result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. • Compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. Violations of such laws and regulations may result in fines and 26 Table of Contents penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies, or restrictions on business conduct that have a material adverse effect on our reputation, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our indebtedness, or a downgrade to our credit ratings, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. • Our indebtedness could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our indebtedness obligations and our other ongoing business obligations, which may result in defaults; events of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt instruments, which could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable or require us to negotiate an amendment to financial or other covenants that could cause us to incur additional fees and expenses; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industries in which we operate, and the overall economy; placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to any of our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged; and increasing our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. • Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under our debt instruments depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot be certain that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our existing or any future credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our indebtedness obligations and to fund other liquidity needs. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness, for many reasons, including to fund acquisitions. If we add additional indebtedness or other liabilities, the related risks that we face could intensify. 27 Table of Contents

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) provides a narrative of the results of operations and financial condition of S&P Global Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, “S&P Global,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our”) for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The MD&A provides information on factors that we believe are important in understanding our results of operations and comparability and certain other factors that may affect our future results. The MD&A should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“U.S. GAAP”). The MD&A includes the following sections: • Overview • Results of Operations • Liquidity and Capital Resources • Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Information • Critical Accounting Estimates • Recent Accounting Standards Certain of the statements below are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition, any projections of future results of operations and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See Forward-Looking Statements on page 4 of this report. OVERVIEW We are a provider of credit ratings, benchmarks, analytics and workflow solutions in the global capital, commodity and automotive markets. The capital markets include asset managers, investment banks, commercial banks, insurance companies, exchanges, trading firms and issuers; the commodity markets include producers, traders and intermediaries within energy, petrochemicals, metals & steel and agriculture; and the automotive markets include manufacturers, suppliers, dealerships, service shops and consumers. Our operations consist of five businesses: S&P Global Market Intelligence (“Market Intelligence”), S&P Global Ratings (“Ratings”), S&P Global Commodity Insights (“Commodity Insights”), S&P Global Mobility (“Mobility”) and S&P Dow Jones Indices (“Indices”). As of May 2, 2023, we completed the sale of Engineering Solutions (“Engineering Solutions”), a provider of engineering standards and related technical knowledge, and the results are included through that date. • Market Intelligence is a global provider of multi-asset-class data and analytics integrated with purpose-built workflow solutions. • Ratings is an independent provider of credit ratings, research and analytics, offering investors and other market participants information, ratings and benchmarks. • Commodity Insights is a leading independent provider of information and benchmark prices for the commodity and energy markets. • Mobility is a leading provider of solutions serving the full automotive value chain including vehicle manufacturers (OEMs), automotive suppliers, mobility service providers, retailers, consumers, and finance and insurance companies. • Indices is a global index provider maintaining a wide variety of valuation and index benchmarks for investment advisors, wealth managers and institutional investors. • As of May 2, 2023, we completed the sale of Engineering Solutions, a provider of engineering standards and related technical knowledge, and the results are included through that date . 35 Table of Contents On May 2, 2023, we completed the sale of Engineering Solutions to Allium Buyer LLC, a Delaware limited liability company controlled by funds affiliated with Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. (“KKR”). We received the full proceeds from the sale of $975 million in cash, subject to purchase price adjustments, which we expect to result in approximately $750 million in after-tax proceeds. The assets and liabilities of Engineering Solutions were classified as held for sale in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2022. During the year ended December 31, 2023, we recorded a pre-tax loss of $120 million in Loss (gain) on dispositions and disposition-related costs of $16 million in selling and general expenses in the consolidated statement of income ($182 million after-tax, net of a release of a deferred tax liability of $157 million) related to the sale of Engineering Solutions. The transaction followed our announced intent in November of 2022 to divest the business. Engineering Solutions became part of the Company following our merger with IHS Markit. See Note 2 - Acquisitions and Divestitures to the consolidated financial statements under Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion. On February 28, 2022, we completed the merger with IHS Markit Ltd (“IHS Markit”), and as a result, IHS Markit and its subsidiaries became wholly owned consolidated subsidiaries of S&P Global, and the financial results include IHS Markit from the date of acquisition. See Note 2 - Acquisitions and Divestitures to the consolidated financial statements under Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion. Shareholder Return During the three years ended December 31, 2023, we have returned approximately $18.2 billion to our shareholders through a combination of share repurchases and our quarterly dividends: we completed share repurchases of approximately $15.3 billion and distributed regular quarterly dividends totaling approximately $2.9 billion. Also, on January 23, 2024, the Board of Directors approved a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.91 per share. Key Results 1 % changes in the tables throughout the MD&A are calculated off of the actual number, not the rounded number presented. 2 Operating profit for the year ended December 31, 2023 includes IHS Markit merger costs of $236 million, employee severance charges of $184 million, acquisition-related costs of $77 million, loss on dispositions of $70 million, disposition-related costs of $24 million, lease impairments of $14 million, asset impairments of $9 million and an asset write-off of $1 million. Operating profit for the year ended December 31, 2022 includes a gain on dispositions of $1.9 billion, IHS Markit merger costs of $619 million, employee severance charges of $289 million, a S&P Foundation grant of $200 million, disposition-related costs of $24 million, a gain on acquisition of $10 million, an asset impairment of $9 million, lease impairments of $5 million, legal costs of $5 million, an asset write-off of $4 million and an acquisition-related benefit of $4 million. Operating profit for the year ended December 31, 2021 includes IHS Markit merger costs of $249 million, employee severance charges of $19 million, gain on dispositions of $11 million, a lease impairment of $3 million, Kensho retention related expense of $2 million, acquisition-related costs of $4 million and recovery of lease-related costs of $2 million. Operating profit also includes amortization of intangibles from acquisitions of $1.1 billion, $959 million and $96 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. 2023 Revenue increased 12% primarily due to the impact of the merger with IHS Markit; subscription revenue growth for Desktop products, RatingsXpress®, RatingsDirect®, and data feed products within Data & Advisory Solutions at Market Intelligence; growth in corporate bond ratings revenue and bank loan ratings revenue due to higher refinancing activity and higher non-transaction revenue due to an increase in surveillance revenue and an increase in revenue at our CRISIL subsidiary at Ratings; continued demand for market data and market insights products, higher conference revenue and an increase in sales usage-based royalties from the licensing of our proprietary market data and price assessments to commodity exchanges at Commodity Insights; price increases and new business growth within the Dealer business as well as the favorable impact of the acquisition of Market Scan in February of 2023 at Mobility; and higher exchange-traded derivative revenue and higher data subscription revenue at Indices. These increases were partially offset by a decrease at Engineering Solutions due to its sale on May 2, 2023, a decrease in new entity credit ratings revenue at Ratings and lower over-the-counter derivatives revenue at Indices. Foreign exchange rates had an unfavorable impact of less than 1 percentage point. 36 Table of Contents Operating profit decreased 19%. Excluding the unfavorable impact of a higher gain on dispositions in 2022 of 39 percentage points, higher acquisition-related costs in 2023 of 2 percentage points and higher amortization of intangibles in 2023 of 3 percentage points, partially offset by the impact of higher IHS Markit merger costs in 2022 of 8 percentage points, the impact of a S&P Foundation grant in 2022 of 4 percentage points and higher employee severance charges in 2022 of 2 percentage points, operating profit increased 11%. The increase was primarily due to revenue growth, partially offset by expenses associated with the merger with IHS Markit, higher compensation costs and increased incentives. Foreign exchange rates had a favorable impact of 1 percentage point. 2022 Revenue increased 35% primarily due to the impact of the merger with IHS Markit; subscription revenue growth for certain Desktop products, RatingsXpress®, RatingsDirect®, and certain data feed products within Data & Advisory Solutions at Market Intelligence; continued demand for market data and market insights products and higher conference revenue at Commodity Insights; higher exchange-traded derivative revenue, higher average levels of assets under management for mutual funds and higher data subscription revenue at Indices. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in revenue at Ratings due to lower corporate bond ratings revenue driven by a decrease in high-yield and investment-grade issuance volumes, lower bank loan ratings revenue and a decrease in structured finance revenue. Foreign exchange rates had an unfavorable impact of 2 percentage points. Operating profit increased 17% . Excluding the favorable impact of a higher gain on dispositions of 57 percentage points, partially offset by the impact of higher IHS Markit merger costs in 2022 of 11 percentage points, a S&P Foundation grant in 2022 of 6 percentage points, higher amortization of intangibles from acquisitions in 2022 of 26 percentage points and higher employee severance charges in 2022 of 8 percentage points and disposition-related costs of 1 percentage point, operating profit increased 12%. The increase was primarily due to revenue growth, lower incentive costs and lower occupancy costs from reduced real estate footprint, partially offset by expenses associated with the merger with IHS Markit, an increase in compensation costs driven by additional headcount and annual merit and promotion increases, the resumption of business travel from the lifting of COVID restrictions, higher outside services expenses and an increase in technology expenses. Foreign exchange rates had an unfavorable impact of less than 1 percentage point. Our Strategy We are a provider of credit ratings, benchmarks, analytics and workflow solutions in the global capital, commodity and automotive markets. Our purpose is to accelerate progress. We seek to deliver on this purpose in line with our core values of integrity, discovery and partnership. Powering Global Markets is the framework for our forward-looking business strategy. Through this framework, we seek to deliver an exceptional, differentiated customer experience by enhancing our foundational capabilities, evolving and growing our core businesses, and pursuing growth via adjacencies. In 2024, we are striving to deliver on our strategic priorities in the following key areas: Financial • Meeting or exceeding our organic revenue growth and EBITA margin targets; • Realizing our merger/integration commitments - cost and revenue synergy targets; and • Driving growth and superior shareholder returns through effective execution, active portfolio management and prudent capital allocation. Customer at the Core • Enhancing customer support and seamless user experience with a focus on ease of discoverability, distribution, and delivery of our products and services and integrated capabilities; and • Continuing to invest in customer facing solutions and processes; and • Prioritizing key strategic relationships to drive enterprise alignment and account/relationship development. 37 Table of Contents Grow and Innovate • Continuing to fund and accelerate key growth areas and transformational adjacencies; • Exercising disciplined organic capital allocation, inorganic and partnership strategies; and • Growing the value of S&P Global’s brand through an integrated marketing and communication strategy; driving awareness and consideration across the product offering. Data and Technology • Strengthening data management capabilities for cross-enterprise value creation, ensuring data quality through governance, enhanced architecture, and policy codification. Utilizing advanced technologies to enhance data processing efficiency, precision, and drive new insights, prioritizing optimized data management and analysis; • Adopting efficient modern native cloud technologies and data services; implementing technologies that align with customer needs and unlock new opportunities; and • Formulating and executing on an enterprise-wide AI strategy that accelerates innovation in our product offerings and drives the productivity of our people with common AI capabilities. Lead and Inspire • Continuing to improve diverse representation through hiring, advancement and retention, while continuing to raise awareness through Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion education; and • Ensuring our people are engaged with a particular focus on learning, development and career opportunities, and continue to embed our purpose and values throughout the Company. Execute and Deliver • Driving continuous commitment to risk management, compliance, and control across S&P Global; • Strengthening the security and resiliency of business-critical systems through the elimination of known risk areas vulnerable to threat actor exploitation; and • Creating a more sustainable impact. There can be no assurance that we will achieve success in implementing any one or more of these strategies as a variety of factors could unfavorably impact operating results, including prolonged difficulties in the global credit markets and a change in the regulatory environment affecting our businesses. See Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Further projections and discussion on our 2024 outlook for our segments can be found within “ – Results of Operations”. 38 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Consolidated Review N/M- Represents a change equal to or in excess of 100% or not meaningful 39 Table of Contents Revenue N/M - Represents a change equal to or in excess of 100% or not meaningful 40 Table of Contents 2023 Revenue increased 12% as compared to 2022. Subscription revenue increased in 2023 primarily due to the impact of the merger with IHS Markit. Subscription revenue growth in Desktop products, Credit & Risk Solutions and Data & Advisory Solutions at Market Intelligence, continued demand for Commodity Insights market data and market insights products and higher data subscription revenue at Indices, partially offset by a decrease at Engineering Solutions due to its sale on May 2, 2023. Non-subscription / transaction revenue increased due to the impact of the merger with IHS Markit, growth in corporate bond ratings revenue and bank loan ratings revenue due to higher refinancing activity at Ratings and an increase in conference revenue at Commodity Insights, partially offset by a decrease at Engineering Solutions due to its sale on May 2, 2023. Non-transaction revenue increased due to an increase in surveillance revenue and an increase in revenue at our CRISIL subsidiary, partially offset by a decrease in new entity credit ratings revenue. Asset linked fees remained relatively unchanged at Indices due to higher average levels of assets under management for ETFs, offset by product mix. The increase in sales-usage based royalties was primarily driven by higher exchange-traded derivative revenue at Indices and an increase in sales usage-based royalties from the licensing of our proprietary market data and price assessments to commodity exchanges at Commodity Insights. Recurring variable revenue at Market Intelligence increased due to the impact of the merger with IHS Markit and fixed income new issuance volumes. See “Segment Review” below for further information. The unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates reduced revenue by less than 1 percentage point. This impact refers to constant currency comparisons estimated by recalculating current year results of foreign operations using the average exchange rate from the prior year. 2022 Revenue increased 35% as compared to 2021. Subscription revenue increased in 2022 primarily due to the impact of the merger with IHS Markit. Subscription revenue growth in Desktop products, Credit & Risk Solutions and Data & Advisory Solutions at Market Intelligence, continued demand for Commodity Insights market data and market insights products and higher data subscription revenue at Indices also contributed to the increase. Non-subscription / transaction revenue decreased due to a decrease in corporate bond ratings revenue, bank loan ratings revenue and structured finance revenue at Ratings, partially offset by the impact of the merger with IHS Markit and an increase in conference revenue at Commodity Insights. Non-transaction revenue decreased primarily due to the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates, a decrease in entity credit ratings revenue and lower Ratings Evaluation Service (“RES”) revenue, partially offset by an increase in revenue at our CRISIL subsidiary and an increase in surveillance revenue at Ratings. Asset linked fees increased primarily due to higher average levels of assets under management for mutual funds at Indices. The increase in sales-usage based royalties was primarily driven by higher exchange-traded derivative revenue at Indices. Recurring variable revenue at Market Intelligence represents revenue from contracts for services that specify a fee based on, among other factors, the number of trades processed, assets under management, or the number of positions valued. See “Segment Review” below for further information. The unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates reduced revenue by 2 percentage points. This impact refers to constant currency comparisons estimated by recalculating current year results of foreign operations using the average exchange rate from the prior year. 41 Table of Contents Total Expenses The following tables provide an analysis by segment of our operating-related expenses and selling and general expenses for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022: N/M - Represents a change equal to or in excess of 100% or not meaningful 1 In 2023, selling and general expenses include employee severance charges of $90 million, acquisition-related costs of $69 million, IHS Markit merger costs of $49 million, an asset impairment of $5 million and as asset write-off of $1 million. In 2022, selling and general expenses include employee severance charges of $90 million, IHS Markit merger costs of $35 million and acquisition-related costs of $2 million. 2 In 2023, selling and general expenses include employee severance charges of $10 million and an asset impairment of $1 million. In 2022, selling and general expenses include employee severance charges of $24 million, legal costs of $5 million and an asset write-off of $1 million. 3 In 2023, selling and general expenses include IHS Markit merger costs of $35 million, employee severance charges of $26 million and acquisition-related costs of $2 million. In 2022, selling and general expenses include employee severance charges of $45 million and IHS Markit merger costs of $26 million. 4 In 2023, selling and general expenses include employee severance charges of $9 million, IHS Markit merger costs of $3 million and acquisition-related costs of $2 million. In 2022, selling and general expenses include acquisition-related benefit of $14 million, employee severance charges of $4 million and IHS Markit merger costs of $3 million. 5 In 2023, selling and general expenses include employee severance charges of $5 million and IHS Markit merger costs of $4 million. In 2022, selling and general expenses include employee severance charges of $14 million and IHS Markit merger costs of $2 million. 6 In 2022, selling and general expenses include employee severance charges of $4 million. 7 Intersegment eliminations primarily relate to a royalty charged to Market Intelligence for the rights to use and distribute content and data developed by Ratings. 8 In 2023, selling and general expenses include IHS Markit merger costs of $147 million, employee severance charges of $43 million, disposition-related costs of $24 million, lease impairments of $14 million and acquisition-related costs of $4 million. In 2022, selling and general expenses include IHS Markit merger costs of $553 million, a S&P Foundation grant of $200 million, employee severance charges of $107 million, disposition-related costs of $24 million, a gain on acquisition of $10 million, an asset impairment of $9 million, acquisition-related costs of $8 million, lease impairments of $5 million and an asset write-off of $3 million. Operating-Related Expenses Operating-related expenses increased 10% as compared to 2022, primarily driven by the impact of the merger with IHS Markit, higher compensation costs and increased incentives. Intersegment eliminations primarily relate to a royalty charged to Market Intelligence for the rights to use and distribute content and data developed by Ratings. 42 Table of Contents Selling and General Expenses Selling and general expenses decreased 7%. Excluding the favorable impact of higher IHS Markit merger costs in 2022 of 14 percentage points, a S&P Foundation grant in 2022 of 8 percentage points and higher employee severance charges in 2022 of 4 percentage points, partially offset by higher acquisition-related costs in 2023 of 3 percentage points, selling and general expenses increased 16%. The increase was primarily driven by the impact of the merger with IHS Markit, higher compensation costs and increased incentives. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization was $1,143 million in 2023 compared to $1,013 million in 2022, primarily due to higher intangible asset amortization driven by the impact of the merger with IHS Markit, partially offset by lower intangible asset amortization driven by the sale of Engineering Solutions on May 2, 2023. The following tables provide an analysis by segment of our operating-related expenses and selling and general expenses for the years ended December 31,  2022 and 2021: N/M - Represents a change equal to or in excess of 100% or not meaningful 1 In 2022, selling and general expenses include employee severance charges of $90 million, IHS Markit merger costs of $35 million and acquisition-related costs of $2 million. In 2021, selling and general expenses include employee severance charges of $3 million, acquisition-related costs of $2 million and lease-related costs of $1 million. 2 In 2022, selling and general expenses include employee severance charges of $24 million, legal costs of $5 million and an asset write-off of $1 million. In 2021, selling and general expenses include recovery of lease-related costs of $4 million and employee severance charges of $3 million. 3 In 2022, selling and general expenses include employee severance charges of $45 million and IHS Markit merger costs of $26 million. In 2021, selling and general expenses include recovery of lease-related costs of $2 million. 4 In 2022, selling and general expenses include an acquisition-related benefit of $14 million, employee severance charges of $4 million and IHS Markit merger costs of $3 million. 5 In 2022, selling and general expenses include employee severance charges of $14 million and IHS Markit merger costs of $2 million. In 2021, selling and general expenses include recovery of lease-related costs of $1 million. 6 In 2022, selling and general expenses include employee severance charges of $4 million. 7 Intersegment eliminations primarily relate to a royalty charged to Market Intelligence for the rights to use and distribute content and data developed by Ratings. 8 In 2022, selling and general expenses include IHS Markit merger costs of $553 million, a S&P Foundation grant of $200 million, employee severance charges of $107 million, disposition-related costs of $24 million, a gain on acquisition of $10 million, an asset impairment of $9 million, acquisition-related costs of $8 million, lease impairments of $5 million and an asset write-off of $3 million. In 2021, selling and general expenses include IHS Markit merger costs of $249 million, employee severance charges of $13 million, lease-related costs of $4 million, a lease impairment of $3 million, Kensho retention related expenses of $2 million and acquisition-related costs of $2 million. 43 Table of Contents Operating-Related Expenses Operating-related expenses increase d by 72% a s compared to 2021 primarily driven by expenses associated with the merger with IHS Markit and higher compensation costs, partially offset by lower incentive costs. Intersegment eliminations primarily relate to a royalty charged to Market Intelligence for the rights to use and distribute content and data developed by Ratings. Selling and General Expenses Selling and general expenses increased 97%. Excluding the unfavorable impact of higher IHS Markit merger costs in 2022 of 18 percentage points, a S&P Foundation grant of 10 percentage points, higher employee severance charges of 13 percentage points and higher disposition-related costs of 1 percentage point, selling and general expenses increased 55%. The increase was primarily driven by expenses associated with the merger with IHS Markit and higher compensation costs, partially offset by lower incentive costs. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization was $1,013 million in 2022 compared to $178 million in 2021, primarily due to higher intangible asset amortization driven by the impact of the merger with IHS Markit. Loss (Gain) on Dispositions During the year ended December 31, 2023, we completed the following disposition and received the following contingent payment that resulted in a pre-tax loss of $70 million, which was included in Loss (gain) on dispositions in the consolidated statement of income: • During the year ended December 31, 2023, we recorded a pre-tax loss of $120 million in Loss (gain) on dispositions and disposition-related costs of $16 million in selling and general expenses in the consolidated statements of income ($182 million after-tax, net of a release of a deferred tax liability of $157 million) related to the sale of Engineering Solutions. • In the first quarter of  2023, we received a contingent payment following the sale of Leveraged Commentary and Data (“LCD”) along with a related family of leveraged loan indices in June of 2022. The contingent payment was payable six months following the closing upon the achievement of certain conditions related to the transition of LCD customer relationships. During the year ended December 31, 2023, the contingent payment resulted in a pre-tax gain of $46 million ($34 million after-tax) related to the sale of LCD in our Market Intelligence segment and $4 million ($3 million after-tax) related to the sale of a family of leveraged loan indices in our Indices segment. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we completed the following dispositions that resulted in a pre-tax gain of $1.9 billion, which was included in Loss (gain) on dispositions in the consolidated statements of income: • In June of 2022, we comple ted the previously announced sale of LCD along with a related family of leveraged loan indices, within our Market Intelligence and Indices segments, respectively, to Morningstar for a purchase price of $600 million in cash, subject to customary adjustments, and a contingent payment of up to $50 million which was payable six months following the closing upon the achievement of certain conditions related to the transition of LCD customer relationships. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded a pre-tax gain of $505 million ($378 million after-tax) for the sale of LCD. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded a pre-tax gain of $52 million ($43 million after-tax) for the sale of a family of leveraged loan indices in Loss (gain) on dispositions in the consolidated statements of income. • In June of 2022, we completed the previously announced sale of the Base Chemicals business to News Corp for $295 million in cash. We did not recognize a gain on the sale of the Base Chemicals business. • In March of 2022, we completed the previously announced sale of CUSIP Global Services (“CGS”), a business within our Market Intelligence segment, to FactSet Research Systems Inc. for a purchase price of $1.925 billion in cash, subject to customary adjustments. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded a pre-tax gain of $1.342 billion ($1.005 billion after tax) in Loss (gain) on dispositions in the consolidated statements of income related to the sale of CGS. • In February of 2022, we completed the previously announced sale of OPIS to News Corp for $1.150 billion in cash. We did not recognize a gain on the sale of OPIS. 44 Table of Contents During the year ended December 31, 2021, we completed the following dispositions that resulted in a pre-tax gain of $11 million, which was included in Loss (gain) on dispositions in the consolidated statements of income: • During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recorded a pre-tax gain of $8 million ($6 million after-tax) in Loss (gain) on dispositions in the consolidated statements of income related to the sale of office facilities in India. • During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recorded a pre-tax gain of $3 million ($3 million after-tax) in Loss (gain) on dispositions in the consolidated statements of income related to the sale of Standard & Poor's Investment Advisory Services LLC (“SPIAS”), a business within our Market Intelligence segment, that occurred in July of 2019. Operating Profit We consider operating profit to be an important measure for evaluating our operating performance and we evaluate operating profit for each of the reportable business segments in which we operate. We internally manage our operations by reference to operating profit with economic resources allocated primarily based on each segment's contribution to operating profit. Segment operating profit is defined as operating profit before Corporate Unallocated expense and Equity in Income on Unconsolidated Subsidiaries. Segment operating profit is not, however, a measure of financial performance under U.S. GAAP, and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. The table below reconciles segment operating profit to total operating profit: N/M - Represents a change equal to or in excess of 100% or not meaningful 1 2023 includes employee severance charges of $90 million, acquisition-related costs of $69 million, IHS Markit merger costs of $49 million, a gain on disposition of $46 million, an asset impairment of $5 million and an asset write-off of $1 million. 2022 includes a gain on disposition of $1.8 billion, employee severance charges of $90 million, IHS Markit merger costs of $35 million and acquisition-related costs of $2 million. 2021 includes employee severance charges of $3 million, a gain on disposition of $3 million, acquisition-related costs of $2 million and lease-related costs of $1 million. 2023, 2022 and 2021 include amortization of intangibles from acquisitions of $561 million, $474 million and $65 million, respectively. 2 2023 includes employee severance charges of $10 million and an asset impairment of $1 million. 2022 includes employee severance charges of $24 million, legal costs of $5 million and an asset write-off of $1 million. 2021 includes a gain on disposition of $6 million, recovery of lease-related costs of $4 million and employee severance charges of $3 million. 2023, 2022 and 2021, include amortization of intangibles from acquisitions of $8 million, $7 million and $10 million, respectively. 3 2023 includes IHS Markit merger costs of $35 million, employee severance charges of $26 million and acquisition-related costs of $2 million. 2022 includes employee severance charges of $45 million and IHS Markit merger costs of $26 million. 2021 includes recovery of lease-related costs of $2 million. 2023, 2022 and 2021 include amortization of intangibles from acquisitions of $131 million, $111 million and $8 million, respectively. 4 2023 includes employee severance charges of $9 million, IHS Markit merger costs of $3 million and acquisition-related costs of $2 million. 2022 includes an acquisition-related benefit of $14 million, employee severance charges of $4 million and IHS Markit merger costs of $3 million. 2023 and 2022 include amortization of intangibles from acquisitions of $301 million and $241 million, respectively. 5 2023 includes employee severance charges of $5 million, a gain on disposition of $4 million and IHS Markit merger costs of $4 million. 2022 includes a gain on disposition of $52 million, employee severance charges of $14 million and IHS Markit merger costs of $2 million. 2021 includes recovery of lease-related costs of $1 million. 2023, 2022 and 2021 include amortization of intangibles from acquisitions of $36 million, $31 million and $6 million, respectively. 45 Table of Contents 6 2023 includes amortization of intangibles from acquisitions of $1 million. 2 022 includes employee severance charges of $4 million and amortization of intangibles from acquisitions of $35 million. 7 2023 includes IHS Markit merger costs of $147 million, a loss on disposition of $120 million, employee severance charges of $43 million, disposition-related costs of $24 million, lease impairments of $14 million and acquisition-related costs of $4 million. 2022 includes IHS Markit merger costs of $553 million, a S&P Foundation grant of $200 million, employee severance charges of $107 million, disposition-related costs of $24 million, a gain on acquisition of $10 million, an asset impairment of $9 million, acquisition-related costs of $8 million, lease impairments of $5 million and an asset write-off of $3 million. 2021 includes IHS Markit merger costs of $249 million, employee severance charges of $13 million,  lease-related costs of $4 million, a lease impairment of $3 million, Kensho retention related expenses of $2 million, acquisition-related costs of $2 million and a gain on disposition of $2 million. 2023, 2022 and 2021 include amortization of intangibles from acquisitions of $3 million, $4 million and $7 million, respectively. 8 2023 includes an asset impairment of $2 million. 2023 and 2022 includes amortization of intangibles from acquisitions of $56 million and $55 million, respectively. 2023 Segment Operating Profit — Decreased 24% as compared to 2022. Excluding the unfavorable impact of a higher gain on dispositions in 2022 of 33 percentage points, higher amortization of intangibles from acquisitions in 2023 of 2 percentage points and higher acquisition-related costs of 1 percentage point, partially offset by higher employee severance charges in 2022 of 1 percentage point, segment operating profit increased 12%. The increase was primarily due to revenue growth, partially offset by higher compensation costs and increased incentives. See “Segment Review” below for further information. Corporate Unallocated Expense — Corporate Unallocated expense includes costs for corporate functions, select initiatives, unoccupied office space and Kensho, included in selling and general expenses. Corporate Unallocated expense decreased 49% compared to 2022. Excluding the impact of higher IHS Markit merger costs in 2022 of 15 percentage points, a S&P Foundation grant in 2022 of 7 percentage points and higher employee severance charges in 2022 of 2 percentage points, partially offset by a loss on disposition in 2023 of 4 percentage points, Corporate Unallocated expense increased 69% primarily due to increased incentives. Equity in Income on Unconsolidated Subsidiaries — The Company holds an investment in a 50/50 joint venture arrangement with shared control with CME Group that combined each of the company’s post-trade services into a new joint venture, OSTTRA. The joint venture provides trade processing and risk mitigation operations and incorporates CME Group’s optimization businesses (Traiana, TriOptima, and Reset) and the Company’s MarkitSERV business. The combination is intended to increase operating efficiencies of both the company’s business to more effectively service clients with enhanced platforms and services for OTC markets across interest rate, FX, equity, and credit asset classes. Equity in Income on Unconsolidated Subsidiaries includes the OSTTRA joint venture acquired in connection with the merger with IHS Markit. Equity in Income on Unconsolidated Subsidiaries was $36 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. Foreign exchange rates had a favorable impact on operating profit of 1 percentage point. This impact refers to constant currency comparisons and the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities. Constant currency impacts are estimated by re-calculating current year results of foreign operations using the average exchange rate from the prior year. Remeasurement impacts are based on the variance between current-year and prior-year foreign exchange rate fluctuations on assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the individual businesses functional currency. 2022 Segment Operating Profit — Increased 27% as compared to 2021. Excluding the favorable impact of a higher gain on dispositions in 2022 of 41 percentage points, partially offset by higher amortization of intangibles from acquisitions in 2022 of 18 percentage points, higher employee severance charges in 2022 of 4 percentage points and IHS Markit merger related costs in 2022 of 1 percentage point, segment operating profit increased 9%. The increase was primarily due to revenue growth primarily due to the impact of the merger with IHS Markit, lower incentive costs and lower occupancy costs from reduced real estate footprint, partially offset by a decrease in revenue at Ratings, expenses associated with the merger with IHS Markit, an increase in compensation costs driven by additional headcount and annual merit and promotion increases, the resumption of business travel from the lifting of COVID restrictions and an increase in technology expenses. See “Segment Review” below for further information. Corporate Unallocated Expense— Corporate Unallocated expense includes costs for corporate functions, select initiatives, unoccupied office space and Kensho, included in selling and general expenses. Corporate Unallocated expense increased 132%  compared to 2021. Excluding higher IHS Markit merger costs in 2022 of 85 percentage points, a S&P Foundation grant in 2022 of 56 percentage points, higher employee severance charges in 2022 of 26 percentage points, disposition-related costs in 2022 of 7 percentage points, an asset impairment in 2022 of 2 percentage points and higher acquisition-related costs in 2022 of 1 46 Table of Contents percentage point, partially offset by a gain on acquisition in 2022 of 3 percentage points and lower amortization of intangibles from acquisitions in 2022 of 1 percentage point, Corporate Unallocated expense decreased 41%  primarily due to cost synergies and lower incentive costs. Equity in Income on Unconsolidated Subsidiaries — The Company holds an investment in a 50/50 joint venture arrangement with shared control with CME Group that combined each of the company’s post-trade services into a new joint venture, OSTTRA. The joint venture provides trade processing and risk mitigation operations and incorporates CME Group’s optimization businesses (Traiana, TriOptima, and Reset) and the Company’s MarkitSERV business. The combination is intended to increase operating efficiencies of both the company’s business to more effectively service clients with enhanced platforms and services for OTC markets across interest rate, FX, equity, and credit asset classes. Equity in Income on Unconsolidated Subsidiaries includes the OSTTRA joint venture acquired in connection with the merger with IHS Markit. Equity in Income on Unconsolidated Subsidiaries was $27 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. Foreign exchange rates had an unfavorable impact on operating profit of less than 1 percentage point. This impact refers to constant currency comparisons and the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities. Constant currency impacts are estimated by re-calculating current year results of foreign operations using the average exchange rate from the prior year. Remeasurement impacts are based on the variance between current-year and prior-year foreign exchange rate fluctuations on assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the individual businesses functional currency. Other Income , net Other expense (income), net primarily includes the net periodic benefit cost for our retirement and post retirement plans. Other expense, net for 2023 was $15 million and other income, net was $70 million and  $62 million for 2022 and 2021, respectively . During 2023 and 2022, lump sum withdrawals exceeded the combined total anticipated annual service and interest cost of our U.S. retirement plan and U.K. plan, respectively, triggering the recognition of a non-cash pre-tax settlement charge of $23 million and $13 million, respectively. Excluding these pre-tax settlement charges, other income, net was $9 million , $83 million , and $62 million for 2023, 2022, 2021, respectively. The decrease in other income, net in 2023 compared to 2022 was primarily due to losses on our mark-to-market investments in 2023 compared to gains in 2022 and the increase in 2022 compared to 2021 was primarily due to a higher gain on investments in 2022. Interest Expense, net Net interest expense for 2023 increased $30 million compared to 2022 primarily due to the issuance of $750 million 5.25% senior notes in September of 2023 and incremental expense related to commercial paper borrowings. Net interest expense for 2022 increased $185 million compared to 2021 primarily due to higher debt balances. See Note 5 - Debt to the consolidated financial statements under Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion. Loss on Extinguishment of Debt, Net In 2022, we recognized an $8 million loss on extinguishment of debt which includes a tender premium paid to tendering note holders in accordance with the terms of the tender offer of $142 million, partially offset by a $134 million non-cash write-off related to the fair market value step up premium on extinguished debt. Provision for Income Taxes Our effective tax rate was 21.2%, 25.1% and 21.6% for 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Fluctuation in tax rates by year is primarily due to tax charge on merger related divestitures and change in mix of income by jurisdiction. Segment Review Market Intelligence Market Intelligence is a global provider of multi-asset-class data and analytics integrated with purpose-built workflow solutions. Market Intelligence’s portfolio of capabilities are designed to help trading and investment professionals, government agencies, corporations and universities track performance, generate alpha, identify investment ideas, understand competitive and industry dynamics, perform valuations and manage credit risk. 47 Table of Contents In January of 2023, we completed the acquisition of ChartIQ, a premier charting provider for the financial services industry. ChartIQ is a professional grade charting solution that allows users to visualize data with a fully interactive web-based library that works seamlessly across web, mobile and desktop. It provides advanced capabilities including trade visualization, options analytics, technical analysis and more. Additionally, ChartIQ allows clients to visualize vendor-supplied data combined with their own proprietary content, alternative datasets or analytics. The acquisition further enhances our S&P Capital IQ Pro platform and other workflow solutions to provide the industry with leading visualization capabilities. The acquisition of ChartIQ is not material to our consolidated financial statements. In January of 2023, we completed the acquisition of TruSight Solutions LLC (“TruSight”) a provider of third-party vendor risk assessments. The acquisition further expands the breadth and depth of S&P Global’s third party vendor risk management solutions by offering high-quality validated assessment data to clients designed to reduce further the vendor due diligence burden on service providers to the financial services industry. The acquisition of TruSight is not material to our consolidated financial statements. In the first quarter of  2023, we received a contingent payment following the sale of Leveraged Commentary and Data (“LCD”) that resulted in a pre-tax gain of $46 million ($34 million after-tax) which was included in Loss (gain) on dispositions in the consolidated statements of income. In June of 2022, we completed the previously announced sale of LCD, a business within our Market Intelligence segment, to Morningstar. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded a pre-tax gain of $505 million ($378 million after-tax)  in Loss (gain) on dispositions in the consolidated statements of income for the sale of LCD. In March of 2022, we completed the previously announced sale of CUSIP Global Services (“CGS”), a business within our Market Intelligence segment, to FactSet Research Systems Inc. for a purchase price of $1.925 billion in cash, subject to customary adjustments. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded a pre-tax gain of $1.342 billion ($ 1.005 billion after-tax) in Loss (gain) on dispositions in the consolidated statements of income related to the sale of CGS. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recorded a pre-tax gain of $3 million ($3 million after-tax) in Loss (gain) on dispositions in the consolidated statement of income related to the sale of Standard & Poor’s Investment Advisory Services LLC (“SPIAS”), a business within our Market Intelligence segment, that occurred in July of 2019. See Note 2 - Acquisitions and Divestitures to the consolidated financial statements under Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion including information on the merger with IHS Markit. Market Intelligence includes the following business lines: • Desktop — a product suite that provides data, analytics and third-party research for global finance and corporate professionals, which includes the Capital IQ platforms (which are inclusive of S&P Capital IQ Pro, Capital IQ, Office and Mobile products); • Data & Advisory Solutions — a broad range of research, reference data, market data, derived analytics and valuation services covering both the public and private capital markets, delivered through flexible feed-based or API delivery mechanisms.  This also includes issuer solutions for public companies, a range of products for the maritime & trade market, data and insight into Financial Institutions, the telecoms, technology and media space as well as ESG and supply chain data analytics; • Enterprise Solutions — software and workflow solutions that help our customers manage and analyze data; identify risk; reduce costs; and meet global regulatory requirements. The portfolio includes industry leading financial technology solutions like Wall Street Office, Enterprise Data Manager, Information Mosaic, and iLevel.  Our Global Markets Group offering delivers bookbuilding platforms across multiple assets including municipal bonds, equities and fixed income; and • Credit & Risk Solutions — commercial arm that sells Ratings’ credit ratings and related data and research, advanced analytics, and financial risk solutions which includes subscription-based offerings, RatingsXpress®, RatingsDirect® and Credit Analytics. Subscription revenue at Market Intelligence is primarily derived from distribution of data, valuation services, analytics, third party research, and credit ratings-related information through both feed and web-based channels. Subscription revenue also includes software and hosted product offerings which provide maintenance and continuous access to our platforms over the 48 Table of Contents contract term.  Recurring variable revenue at Market Intelligence represents revenue from contracts for services that specify a fee based on, among other factors, the number of trades processed, assets under management, or the number of positions  valued. Non-subscription revenue at Market Intelligence is primarily related to certain advisory, pricing conferences and events, and analytical services. The following table provides revenue and segment operating profit information for the years ended December 31: N/M – Represents a change equal to or in excess of 100% or not meaningful 1 2023 includes employee severance charges of $90 million, acquisition-related costs of $69 million, IHS Markit merger costs of $49 million, a gain on disposition of $46 million, an asset impairment of $5 million and an asset write-off of $1 million. 2022 includes a gain on dispositions of $1.8 billion, employee severance charges of $90 million, IHS Markit merger costs of $35 million and acquisition-related costs of $2 million. 2021 includes employee severance charges of $3 million, a gain on disposition of $3 million, acquisition-related costs of $2 million and lease-related costs of $1 million. 2023, 2022 and 2021 include amortization of intangibles from acquisitions of $561 million, $474 million and $65 million, respectively. 2023 Revenue increased 15% primarily due to the impact of the merger with IHS Markit. Subscription revenue growth for Market Intelligence Desktop products, RatingsXpress®, RatingsDirect®, and data feed products within Data and Advisory Solutions also contributed to revenue growth. Foreign exchange rates had a favorable impact of less than 1 percentage point. Operating profit decreased 71%. Excluding the impact of a higher gain on dispositions in 2022 of 79 percentage points, higher amortization of intangibles in 2023 of 4 percentage points, higher acquisition-related costs of 3 percentage point and higher IHS Markit merger costs in 2023 of 1 percentage point, operating profit increased 16% primarily due to revenue growth, partially offset by expenses associated with the merger with IHS Markit, higher compensation costs and increased incentives. Foreign exchange rates had a favorable impact of 1 percentage point. 2022 Revenue increased 74% primarily due to the impact of the merger with IHS Markit. Subscription revenue growth for certain Market Intelligence Desktop products, RatingsXpress®, RatingsDirect®, and certain data feed products within Data and Advisory Solutions also contributed to revenue growth. Foreign exchange rates had an unfavorable impact of 2 percentage points. 49 Table of Contents Operating profit increased 268%. Excluding the impact of a gain on dispositions of 282 percentage points, partially offset by higher amortization of intangibles of 63 percentage points, employee severance charges in 2022 of 13 percentage points and IHS Markit merger costs in 2022 of 5 percentage points, operating profit increased 67% primarily due to revenue growth and lower incentive costs, partially offset by expenses associated with the merger with IHS Markit, an increase in technology expenses and higher compensation costs. Foreign exchange rates had a favorable impact of 4 percentage points. Industry Highlights and Outlook Market Intelligence continues to focus on developing key product offerings in growth areas such as sustainability and growing new products and product features by leveraging technology investments. Product launches and innovation continued at Market Intelligence in 2023 with the introduction of several new products and product features leveraging technology investments. Legal and Regulatory Environment The market for data, analytical capabilities and research services is intensely competitive, ranging from established firms to fast evolving market disruptors. Market Intelligence competes domestically and internationally based on a number of factors, including the quality and range of its data, analytical capabilities, research services, client service, reputation, price, geographic scope, and technological innovation. Market Intelligence is subject to global regulation, particularly in the European Union, the U.K., the U.S. and increasingly so in other jurisdictions.  Several laws and regulations in the European Union, the U.K. and the U.S. have been adopted but not yet implemented, or have been proposed or are being considered, to which Market Intelligence, or its clients, will or may become subject, including laws and regulations related to pricing providers, sustainability, credit rating data, data privacy and cyber security and technology and organizational resilience.  For example, the EU passed the Digital Operational Resilience Act in December 2022 (“DORA”), which will take effect by the end of January 2025. DORA will impose operational resilience and cyber security standards and obligations, including technical and organizational standards and responsibilities which may require technology and/or organizational investment, upon (i) many Market Intelligence financial market clients, who may look to pass such obligations onto vendors like Market Intelligence, and (ii) information and communications technology providers designated by the EU as “Critical Third Party Providers,” which may, or may not, include Market Intelligence.  In addition, from time to time, government and self-regulatory agencies in jurisdictions where we operate conduct market studies on our markets, which may result in the imposition of remedies that impact our business. At this time, the impact on Market Intelligence of any such recently adopted or proposed laws or regulations, or market studies, remains uncertain, but they could increase the regulatory exposure of Market Intelligence or the costs and legal risks relating to Market Intelligence’s activities, adversely affect the ability of Market Intelligence to provide its products and services, or result in changes in the demand for its products and services. If Market Intelligence fails to comply with any such laws or regulations, it could be subject to significant litigation, civil or criminal penalties, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions or fines. Regulatory developments may also present commercial opportunities to Market Intelligence to develop further or different services to enable better compliance by its clients. For a further discussion of competitive and other risks inherent in our Market Intelligence business, see Item 1A, Risk Factors , in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For a further discussion of the legal and regulatory environment in our Market Intelligence business, see Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements under Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Ratings Ratings is an independent provider of credit ratings, research, and analytics, offering investors and other market participants information, ratings and benchmarks. Credit ratings are one of several tools investors can use when making decisions about purchasing bonds and other fixed income investments. They are opinions about credit risk and our ratings express our opinion about the ability and willingness of an issuer, such as a corporation or state or city government, to meet its financial obligations in full and on time. Our credit ratings can also relate to the credit quality of an individual debt issue, such as a corporate or municipal bond, and the relative likelihood that the issue may default. Ratings disaggregates its revenue between transaction and non-transaction. Transaction revenue primarily includes fees associated with: • ratings related to new issuance of corporate and government debt instruments, as well as structured finance debt instruments; and • bank loan ratings. 50 Table of Contents Non-transaction revenue primarily includes fees for surveillance of a credit rating, annual fees for customer relationship-based pricing programs, fees for entity credit ratings and global research and analytics at CRISIL. Non-transaction revenue also includes an intersegment royalty charged to Market Intelligence for the rights to use and distribute content and data developed by Ratings. Royalty revenue for 2023, 2022 and 2021 was $154 million, $143 million an d $136 million, respectively. The following table provides revenue and segment operating profit information for the years ended December 31: 1 2023 includes employee severance charges of $10 million and an asset impairment of $1 million. 2022 includes employee severance charges of $24 million, legal costs of $5 million and an asset write-off of $1 million . 2021 includes a gain on disposition of $6 million, recovery of lease-related costs of $4 million and employee severance charges of $3 million. 2023, 2022 and 2021 include amortization of intangibles from acquisitions of $8 million, $7 million and $10 million, respectively. 2023 Revenue increased 9%, with a favorable impact from foreign exchange rates of less than 1 percentage point. Transaction revenue increased due to growth in corporate bond ratings revenue primarily driven by increased high-yield and investment-grade issuance volumes due to higher refinancing activity. An increase in bank loan ratings revenue driven by increased issuance volumes due to higher refinancing activity also contributed to transaction revenue growth. Non-transaction revenue increased primarily due to an increase in surveillance revenue and an increase in revenue at our CRISIL subsidiary, partially offset by a decrease in new entity credit ratings revenue. Transaction and non-transaction revenue also benefited from improved contract terms across product categories. Operating profit increased 11%. Excluding the impact of higher employee severance costs in 2022 of 1 percentage point, operating profit increased 10% due to revenue growth, partially offset by higher current-year compensation costs and prior-year write-downs in incentive compensation as result of financial performance. 2022 Revenue decreased 26% with an unfav orable impact from foreign exchange rates of 3 percentage points. Transaction revenue decreased due to lower corporate bond ratings revenue driven by a decrease in high-yield and investment-grade issuance volumes and lower bank loan ratings revenue. A decrease in structured finance revenues primarily driven by decreased issuance of U.S. collateralized loan obligations (“CLOs”) also contributed to the decrease in transaction revenue. Reduced issuance volumes mainly resulted from unfavorable macroeconomic conditions in 2022 compared to strong issuance levels in the prior year period. Non-transaction revenue decreased 2% primarily due to the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates, a decrease in entity credit ratings revenue and lower Ratings Evaluation Service ( “RES”) revenue driven by decreased M&A activity, partially offset by an increase in revenue at our CRISIL subsidiary and an increase in surveillance revenue. Excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates of 3 percentage points, non-transaction revenue increased 1%. Transaction 51 Table of Contents and non-transaction revenue also benefited from improved contract terms across product categories. Operating profit decreased 36%, with an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange rates of 1 percentage point. Excluding the impact of employee severance charges in 2022 of 1 percentage point, operating profit decreased 35% primarily due to a decline in revenue partially offset by decrease in expenses. The decrease in expenses was driven by lower incentive costs due to weaker financial performance, lower outside services expenses, lower occupancy costs from reduced real estate footprint, partially offset by higher compensation costs driven by targeted investments into key areas of the business, and the resumption of business travel from the lifting of COVID restrictions. Market Issuance Volumes We monitor market issuance volumes regularly within Ratings. Market issuance volumes noted within the discussion that follows are based on where an issuer is located or where the assets associated with an issue are located. Structured Finance issuance includes amounts when a transaction closes, not when initially priced, and excludes domestically rated Chinese issuance. The following tables depict changes in issuance levels as compared to the prior year based on data from SDC Platinum for Corporate bond issuance and based on a composite of external data feeds and Ratings’ internal estimates for Structured Finance issuance. Note  – Global issuance includes U.S., Europe, Asia and the rest of the world. * Includes Industrials and Financial Services. ** Includes rated and non-rated issuance. • Corporate issuance was up in the U.S. and Europe due to an increase in refinancing activity. * Represents no activity in 2023 or 2022. • ABS issuance increased in the U.S. and Europe driven by auto loans, with Europe also up from a low 2022 base. • CLO issuance was down in the U.S. and Europe structured credit markets due to a decline in new issuance. • CMBS and RMBS issuance was down in the U.S. reflecting unfavorable market conditions. • Covered bond (debt securities backed by mortgages or other high-quality assets that remain on the issuer's balance sheet) issuance in Europe increased as cheaper government funding programs slowed down. 52 Table of Contents Industry Highlights and Outlook Revenue increased in 2023 primarily driven by an increase in corporate bond ratings revenue, bank loan ratings revenue and an increase in non-transaction revenue. Increased issuance volumes due to higher refinancing activity drove increases in corporate bond ratings revenue and bank loan ratings revenue. CRISIL revenue increased across all segments, led by Global Benchmarking Analytics and Global Research & Risk Solutions. Sustainability initiatives and international expansion in China continue to be areas of focus for Ratings. Legal and Regulatory Environment General Ratings and many of the securities that it rates are subject to extensive regulation in both the U.S. and in other countries, and therefore existing and proposed laws and regulations can impact the Company’s operations and the markets in which it operates. Additional laws and regulations have been adopted but not yet implemented or have been proposed or are being considered. In addition, in certain countries, governments may provide financial or other support to locally-based rating agencies. For example, governments may from time to time establish official rating agencies or credit ratings criteria or procedures for evaluating local issuers. We have reviewed the new laws, regulations and rules which have been adopted and we have implemented, or are planning to implement, changes as required. We do not believe that such new laws, regulations or rules will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Other laws, regulations and rules relating to credit rating agencies are from time to time considered by local, national, foreign and multinational bodies and are likely to continue to be considered in the future, including, for example, provisions seeking to reduce regulatory and investor reliance on credit ratings or to increase competition among credit rating agencies, provisions regarding remuneration and rotation of credit rating agencies, and liability standards applicable to credit rating agencies. Similarly, other laws, regulations and rules are being considered or are likely to be considered in the future that may impact ancillary and other services provided by Ratings in addition to its credit rating products and services, for example regulatory oversight regimes for ESG ratings providers such as the proposal for an EU regulation on the transparency and integrity of ESG rating activities.  The impact on us of the adoption of any such laws, regulations or rules remains uncertain, but could increase the costs and legal risks relating to Ratings’ activities, or adversely affect our ability to compete and/or our remuneration, or result in changes in the demand for our products and services. In the normal course of business both in the U.S. and abroad, Ratings (or the legal entities comprising Ratings) are defendants in numerous legal proceedings and are often the subject of government and regulatory proceedings, investigations and inquiries (including market studies). Many of these proceedings, investigations and inquiries relate to the ratings activity of Ratings and are or have been brought by purchasers of rated securities. In addition, various government and self-regulatory agencies frequently make inquiries and conduct investigations into Ratings’ compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Any of these proceedings, investigations or inquiries (including market studies) could ultimately result in adverse judgments, damages, fines, penalties, activity restrictions or negative impacts on our cash flow, which could adversely impact our consolidated financial condition, cash flows, business or competitive position. U.S. The businesses conducted by our Ratings segment are, in certain cases, regulated under the Credit Rating Agency Reform Act of 2006 (the “Reform Act”), the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd Frank Act”), the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) and/or the laws of the states or other jurisdictions in which our Ratings segment conducts business. The financial services industry is subject to the potential for increased regulation in the U.S. S&P Global Ratings is a credit rating agency that is registered with the SEC as a Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organization (“NRSRO”). The SEC first began informally designating NRSROs in 1975 for use of their credit ratings in the determination of capital charges for registered brokers and dealers under the SEC’s Net Capital Rule. The Reform Act created a new SEC registration system for rating agencies that choose to register as NRSROs. Under the Reform Act, the SEC is given authority and oversight of NRSROs and can censure NRSROs, revoke their registration or limit or suspend their registration in certain cases. The rules implemented by the SEC pursuant to the Reform Act, the Dodd Frank Act and the Exchange Act address, among other things, prevention or misuse of material non-public information, conflicts of interest, documentation and assessment of internal controls, and improving transparency of ratings performance and methodologies. The public portions of the current version of S&P Global Ratings’ Form NRSRO are available on S&P Global Ratings’ website. European Union In the European Union ("EU"), the credit rating industry is registered and supervised through a pan-European regulatory framework which is a compilation of three sets of legislative actions. In 2009, the European Parliament passed a regulation (“CRA1”) that established an oversight regime for the credit rating industry in the EU, which became effective in 2010. CRA1 53 Table of Contents requires the registration, formal regulation and periodic inspection of credit rating agencies operating in the EU. Ratings was granted registration in October of 2011. In January of 2011, the EU established the European Securities and Markets Authority (“ESMA”), which, among other things, has direct supervisory responsibility for the registered credit rating industry throughout the EU. Additional rules augmenting the supervisory framework for credit rating agencies went into effect in 2013. Commonly referred to as CRA3, these rules, among other things: • impose various additional procedural requirements with respect to ratings of sovereign issuers; • require member states to adopt laws imposing liability on credit rating agencies for an intentional or grossly negligent failure to abide by the applicable regulations; • impose mandatory rotation requirements on credit rating agencies hired by issuers of securities for ratings of resecuritizations, which may limit the number of years a credit rating agency can issue ratings for such securities of a particular issuer; • impose restrictions on credit rating agencies or their shareholders if certain ownership thresholds are crossed; and • impose additional procedural and substantive requirements on the pricing of services. From January 2025, Ratings will be subject in the EU to new operational resilience and cyber security standards under the Digital Operational Resilience Act, including technical and organizational standards and responsibilities which may require technology and/or organizational investment. The financial services industry is subject to the potential for increased regulation in the EU. United Kingdom Following its exit from the European Union, the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) established a credit rating agencies oversight regime with rules that closely mirror those in place in the EU. Ratings was granted registration with the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) on January 1, 2021. It is possible that the rules applicable to credit rating agencies in the U.K. will diverge from those in the EU in the future as a result of changes to one or the other legislative regime or differing approaches by the FCA and ESMA. Other Jurisdictions Outside of the U.S., the EU and the U.K., regulators and government officials have also been implementing formal oversight of credit rating agencies. Ratings is subject to regulations in most of the foreign jurisdictions in which it operates and continues to work closely with regulators globally to promote the global consistency of regulatory requirements. Regulators in additional countries may introduce new regulations in the future. For a further discussion of competitive and other risks inherent in our Ratings business, see Item 1A, Risk Factors , in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For a further discussion of the legal and regulatory environment in our Ratings business, see Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements under Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Commodity Insights Commodity Insights is a leading independent provider of information and benchmark prices for the commodity and energy markets. Commodity Insights provides essential price data, analytics, industry insights and software & services, enabling the commodity and energy markets to perform with greater transparency and efficiency. Commodity Insights includes the following business lines: • Energy & Resources Data & Insights — includes data, news, insights, and analytics for petroleum, gas, power & renewables, petrochemicals, metals & steel, agriculture, and other commodities; • Price Assessments — includes price assessments and benchmarks, and forward curves; • Upstream Data & Insights — includes exploration & production data and insights, software and analytics; and • Advisory & Transactional Services — includes consulting services, conferences, events and global trading services. 54 Table of Contents Commodity Insights’ revenue is generated primarily through the following sources: • Subscription revenue — primarily from subscriptions to our market data and market insights (price assessments, market reports and commentary and analytics) along with other information products and software term licenses; • Sales usage-based royalties — primarily from licensing our proprietary market price data and price assessments to commodity exchanges; and • Non-subscription revenue — conference sponsorship, consulting engagements, events, and perpetual software licenses. See Note 2 - Acquisitions and Divestitures to the consolidated financial statements under Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion including information on the merger with IHS Markit. The following table provides revenue and segment operating profit information for the years ended December 31: N/M- Represents a change equal to or in excess of 100% or not meaningful 1 2023 include s IHS Markit merger costs of $35 million, employee severance charges of $26 million and acquisition-related costs of $2 million. 2022 inc ludes employee severance charges of $45 million and IHS Markit merger costs of $26 million . 2021 includes recovery of lease-related costs of $2 million. 2023, 2022 and 2021 include amortization of intangibles from acquisitions of $131 million, $111 million, and $8 million, respectively. 2023 Revenue increased 16% primarily due to the impact of the merger with IHS Markit, continued demand for market data and market insights products driven by expanded product offerings to our existing customers under enterprise use contracts and higher conference revenue. An increase in sales usage-based royalties from the licensing of our proprietary market data and price assessments to commodity exchanges mainly due to increased trading volumes also contributed to revenue growth. The Energy & Resources Data & Insights, Price Assessments and Upstream Data & Insights businesses continue to be the most significant revenue streams, followed by the Advisory & Transactional Services business. Foreign exchange rates had an unfavorable impact of less than 1 percentage point. 55 Table of Contents Operating profit increased 19%. Excluding the impact of higher amortization of intangibles from acquisitions in 2023 of 6 percentage points and higher IHS Markit merger costs in 2023 of 3 percentage point, partially offset by higher employee severance charges in 2022 of 6 percentage points, operating profit increased 16%. The increase was primarily due to revenue growth partially offset by expenses associated with the merger with IHS Markit, higher compensation costs, increased incentives, an increase in costs related to the Commodity Insights conferences in 2023 and an increase in strategic investments. Foreign exchange rates had a favorable impact of 1 percentage point. 2022 Revenue increased 66% primarily due to the impact of the merger with IHS Markit, continued demand for market data and market insights products driven by expanded product offerings to our existing customers under enterprise use contracts and higher conference revenue driven by the return of in-person attendance at Commodity Insights conferences in 2022 compared to virtual events in 2021. The Energy & Resources Data & Insights, Price Assessments and Upstream Data & Insights businesses continue to be the most significant revenue drivers, followed by the Advisory & Transactional Services business, which contributed large growth in the first quarter of 2022. Foreign exchange rates had an unfavorable impact of 1 percentage point. Operating profit increased 9%. Excluding the impact of higher amortization of intangibles from acquisitions of 19 percentage points, employee severance charges in 2022 of 8 percentage points and IHS Markit merger costs in 2022 of 5 percentage points, operating profit increased 41%. The increase was primarily due to revenue growth partially offset by expenses associated with the merger with IHS Markit, an increase in costs related to the Commodity Insights conferences in 2022, higher compensation costs, the resumption of business travel from the lifting of COVID restrictions and an increase in operating costs to support business initiatives at Commodity Insights. Foreign exchange rates had a favorable impact of 1 percentage point. Industry Highlights and Outlook In 2023, the impact of the merger with IHS Markit, sustained demand for market data and market insights products, higher conference revenue and an increase in sales usage-based royalties from the licensing of our proprietary market data and price assessments to commodity exchanges mainly due to increased trading volumes contributed to revenue growth. Commodity Insights launched new products in 2023 including Platts Connect, a web/mobile based application integrating Platts & IHS Markit’s energy and commodities content through one integrated platform. Commodity Insights continues to focus on developing new products and product features leveraging technology investments and developing key product offerings in sustainability, including energy transition. Legal and Regulatory Environment Commodity Insights' price assessment business is subject to increasing regulatory scrutiny.  Commodity Insights is subject to commodity benchmark regulation in the EU (the “EU Benchmark Regulation”) and the U.K. (the "U.K. Benchmark Regulation"), as well as increasing regulation in other jurisdictions. Commodity Insights has obtained authorization and is now supervised by the Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets in the Netherlands under the EU Benchmark Regulation, and it will likely need to take similar steps in other jurisdictions including the United Kingdom when the transitional period under the EU Benchmark Regulation (and its equivalent under the U.K. Benchmark Regulation) ends, as well as in jurisdictions outside of Europe implementing similar legislation. The EU's package of legislative measures called the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and Regulation (collectively "MiFID II")have applied in all EU Member States since 2018. MiFID II includes provisions that, among other things: (i) impose new conditions and requirements on the licensing of benchmarks and provide for non-discriminatory access to exchanges and clearing houses; (ii) modify the categorization and treatment of certain classes of derivatives; (iii) expand the categories of trading venue that are subject to regulation; (iv) require the unbundling of investment research and direct  how asset managers pay for research either out of a research payment account or from a firm’s profits; and (v) provide for the mandatory trading of certain derivatives on exchanges (complementing the mandatory derivative clearing requirements in the E.U. Market Infrastructure Regulation of 2011). MiFID II and potential subsequent amendments may result in changes to the manner in which the Commodity Insights business licenses its price assessments. MiFID II and the Market Abuse Regulation may impose additional regulatory burdens on Commodity Insights activities in the EU over time, but their impact on, and costs to, the Company have not yet been substantive. In October of 2012, IOSCO issued its Principles for Oil Price Reporting Agencies ("PRA Principles"), which are intended to enhance the reliability of oil price assessments referenced in derivative contracts subject to regulation by IOSCO members. 56 Table of Contents Commodity Insights has aligned its operations with the PRA Principles and, as recommended by IOSCO in its final report on the PRA Principles, has aligned to the PRA Principles for other commodities for which it publishes benchmarks. From time to time, government and self-regulatory agencies in jurisdictions where we operate conduct market studies on our markets, which may result in the imposition of remedies that impact our business. For a further discussion of competitive and other risks inherent in our Commodity Insights business, see Item 1A, Risk Factors , in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For a further discussion of the legal and regulatory environment in our Commodity Insights business, see Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements under Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Mobility Mobility is a leading provider of solutions serving the full automotive value chain including vehicle manufacturers (OEMs), automotive suppliers, mobility service providers, retailers, consumers, and finance and insurance companies. In February of 2023, we completed the acquisition of Market Scan Information Systems Inc. (“Market Scan”), a leading provider of automotive pricing and incentive intelligence, including Automotive Payments as a Service TM and its powerful payment calculation engine. The addition of Market Scan to Mobility enabled the integration of detailed transaction intelligence in areas that are complementary to existing services for dealers, OEMs, lenders, and other market participants. The acquisition of Market Scan is not material to our consolidated financial statements. Mobility includes the following business lines: • Dealer — includes analytics to predict future buyers, targeted marketing, and vehicle history data to allow people to shop, buy, service and sell used cars; • Manufacturing — includes insights, forecasts and advisory services spanning the entire automotive value chain, from product planning to marketing, sales and the aftermarket; and • Financial — includes reports and data feeds to support lenders and insurance companies . Mobility’s revenue is generated primarily through the following sources: • Subscription revenue — Mobility’s core information products provide critical information and insights to all global OEMs, most of the world’s leading suppliers, and the majority of North American dealerships. Mobility operates across both the new and used car markets. Mobility provides data and insight on future vehicles sales and production, including detailed forecasts on technology and vehicle components; supplies car makers and dealers with market reporting products, predictive analytics and marketing automation software; and supports dealers with vehicle history reports, used car listings and service retention services. Mobility also sells a range of services to financial institutions, to support their marketing, insurance underwriting and claims management activities; and • Non-subscription revenue — One-time transactional sales of data that are non-cyclical in nature – and that are usually tied to underlying business metrics such as OEM marketing spend or safety recall activity – as well as consulting and advisory services. The Mobility business was acquired in connection with the merger with IHS Markit on February 28, 2022 and financial results are included since the date of acquisition. 57 Table of Contents The following table provides revenue and segment operating profit information for the years ended December 31: N/M- Represents a change equal to or in excess of 100% or not meaningful 1 2023 includes employee severance charges of $9 million, IHS Markit merger costs of $3 million and acquisition-related costs of $2 million. 2022 includes an acquisition-related benefit of $14 million, employee severance charges of $4 million and IHS Markit merger costs of $3 million. 2023 and 2022 include amortization of intangibles from acquisitions of $301 million and $241 million, respectively. 2023 Revenue increased 30% primarily due to the impact of the merger with IHS Markit, price increases and new business growth within the Dealer business as well as the favorable impact of the acquisition of Market Scan in February of 2023. Increases within the Financial business due to strong underwriting volumes and the Manufacturing business due to strong recall activity and uptick in marketing solutions also contributed to revenue growth. Foreign exchange rates had an unfavorable impact of less than 1 percentage point. Operating profit increased 22%. Excluding the impact of higher amortization of intangibles from acquisitions in 2023 of 5 percentage points, an acquisition-related benefit in 2022 of 1 percentage point and higher employee severance charges in 2023 of 1 percentage point, operating profit increased 29% driven by revenue growth, partially offset by the impact of the merger with IHS Markit, higher compensation costs, increased incentives, higher technology costs and expenses associated with the acquisition of Market Scan. Foreign exchange rates had an unfavorable impact of 2 percentage points. Industry Highlights and Outlook In 2023, Mobility delivered revenue growth across its businesses. Specifically, strong new business growth and the acquisition of Market Scan in February of 2023 within the Dealer business contributed to revenue growth. Mobility continued to focus on multiple growth opportunities including: evolving our forecasting business to encompass new technologies and new forms of mobility; supporting the industry in its transformation to hybrid electric vehicles and digital retail; enabling consumers to shop, buy, service and sell used cars; and, leveraging the power of S&P Global to develop products for financial markets and to facilitate the industry’s transition towards sustainable mobility. 58 Table of Contents Legal and Regulatory Environment Certain types of information that our Mobility business collects, compiles, stores, uses, transfers, publishes and/or sells is subject to laws and regulations in various jurisdictions in which it operates. There is an increasing public concern regarding, and resulting regulations of, privacy, data, and consumer protection issues. Certain laws and regulations to which our Mobility business is subject pertain to personally identifiable information relating to individuals. Such laws and regulations constrain the collection, use, storage, and transfer of personally identifiable information, and impose other obligations with which we must comply. Other regulation geared at consumer protection such as the Federal Trade Commission's CARS Rule announced in December 2023 sets a framework to ensure transparency throughout the vehicle buying and leasing process and could therefore impact Mobility's products and services. If our Mobility business fails to comply with these laws or regulations, we could be subject to significant litigation and civil or criminal penalties (including monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions or fines) in one or more jurisdictions and reputational damage resulting in the loss of data, brand equity and business. To conduct our operations, our Mobility business also moves data across national borders and consequently can be subject to a variety of evolving and developing laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection, and data security in an increasing number of jurisdictions. Many jurisdictions have passed laws in this area, such as the U.S. Driver's Privacy Protection Act ("DPPA"), the European Union General Data Protection Regulation (the “GDPR”), the cyber-security law adopted by China in 2017, the separate consumer privacy laws in California and other states in the U.S., as well as other jurisdictions considering imposing such restrictions. These laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number, change frequently, and increasingly conflict among the various countries in which our Mobility business operates, which has resulted in greater compliance risk and cost for us. It is possible that our Mobility business could be prohibited or constrained from collecting or disseminating certain types of data or from providing certain products or services. If our Mobility business fails to comply with these laws or regulations, we could be subject to significant litigation, civil or criminal penalties, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions or fines in one or more jurisdictions. For example, a failure to comply with the GDPR could result in fines up to the greater of €20 million or 4% of annual global revenues or in the case of a DPPA violation, U.S. courts may award liquidated damages of $2,500 per individual's personal information. Additional risks are presented by the evolving landscape related to sanctions and export control laws. The landscape related to these laws is evolving rapidly and presents compliance challenges to all businesses covered by these laws. In addition, from time to time, government and self-regulatory agencies in jurisdictions where we operate conduct market studies on our markets, which may result in the imposition of remedies that impact our business. For a further discussion of competitive and other risks inherent in our Mobility business, see Item 1A, Risk Factors , in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For a further discussion of the legal and regulatory environment in our Mobility business, see Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements under Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Indices Indices is a global index provider maintaining a wide variety of valuation and index benchmarks for investment advisors, wealth managers and institutional investors. Indices’ mission is to provide transparent benchmarks to help with decision making, collaborate with the financial community to create innovative products, and provide investors with tools to monitor world markets. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded a pre-tax gain of $52 million ($43 million after-tax) for the sale of a family of leveraged loan indices in Loss (gain) on dispositions in the consolidated statements of income. Indices derives revenue from asset-linked fees when investors direct funds into its proprietary designed or owned indexes, sales usage-based royalties of its indices, as well as data subscription arrangements. Specifically, Indices generates revenue from the following sources: • Investment vehicles — asset-linked fees such as ETFs and mutual funds, that are based on the S&P Dow Jones Indices’ benchmarks that generate revenue through fees based on assets and underlying funds; • Exchange traded derivatives — generate sales usage-based royalties based on trading volumes of derivatives contracts listed on various exchanges; • Index-related licensing fees — fixed or variable annual and per-issue asset-linked fees for over-the-counter derivatives and retail-structured products; and • Data and customized index subscription fees — fees from supporting index fund management, portfolio analytics and research. 59 Table of Contents The following table provides revenue and segment operating profit information for the years ended December 31: 1 2023 includes employee severance charges of $5 million, a gain on disposition of $4 million and IHS Markit merger costs of $4 million. 2022 i ncludes a gain on disposition of $52 million, employee severance charges of $14 million and IHS Markit merger costs of $2 million . 2021 includes recovery of lease-related costs of $1 million . 2023, 2022 and 2021 include amortization of intangibles from acquisitions of $36 million, $31 million and $6 million. 2023 Revenue at Indices increased 5% primarily due to higher exchange-traded derivative revenue driven by continued strength in average trading volume and higher data subscription revenue, partially offset by lower over-the-counter derivatives revenue. Asset linked fees remained relatively unchanged at Indices due to higher average levels of assets under management (“AUM”) for ETFs, offset by product mix. Average levels of AUM for ETFs increased 8% to $2.895 trillion and ending AUM for ETFs increased 27% to $3.303 trillion compared to 2022. Foreign exchange rates had an unfavorable impact of less than 1 percentage point. Operating profit remained unchanged, decreasing less than 1%. Excluding the impact of a higher gain on dispositions in 2022 of 5 percentage points and higher amortization of intangibles from acquisitions in 2023 of 1 percentage point, partially offset by  higher employee severance charges in 2022 of 1 percentage point, operating profit increased 5% due to revenue growth partially offset by increased compensation costs and incentives. Foreign exchange rates had a favorable impact of less than 1 percentage point. 2022 Revenue at Indices increased 17% primarily due to higher exchange-traded derivative revenue driven by higher average trading volume from increased volatility, higher average levels of AUM for mutual funds, higher data subscription revenue and the impact of the merger with IHS Markit. Ending AUM for ETFs in 2022 was $2.601 trillion. Excluding AUM related to the merger with IHS Markit, ending AUM for ETFs decreased 12% to $2.466 trillion and average levels of AUM for ETFs 60 Table of Contents increased 5% to $2.526 trillion compared to 2021. Foreign exchange rates had an unfavorable impact of less than 1 percentage point. Operating profit increased 16%. Excluding the impact of a gain on disposition of 7 percentage points, partially offset by higher amortization of intangibles from acquisitions of 4 percentage points and employee severance charges in 2022 of 2 percentage points, operating profit increased 15%. The impact of revenue growth and lower incentive costs were partially offset by an increase in outside services expenses, strategic investments, higher compensation costs driven by annual merit increases, higher data costs, the resumption of business travel from the lifting of COVID restrictions and the impact of the merger with IHS Markit. Foreign exchange rates had an unfavorable impact of 1 percentage point. Industry Highlights and Outlook Revenue increased in 2023 primarily due to higher exchange-traded derivative revenue driven by continued strength in average trading volume, higher data subscription revenue and higher average levels of AUM for ETFs, partially offset by lower over-the-counter derivatives revenue. Indices continues to be a leading index provider for the ETF market space. Sustainability, thematic and factor indices and multi-asset-class indices continue to be key strategic growth areas for Indices. Legal and Regulatory Environment The financial benchmarks industry is subject to specific benchmark regulation in the European Union (the "EU Benchmark Regulation"), the United Kingdom (the "U.K. Benchmark Regulation"), and Australia (the "Australia Benchmark Regulation"). Various other jurisdictions, including the United States, India, Canada and South Africa, are also considering the regulation of financial benchmarks through new or existing regimes. Although they vary in scope, the requirements of the EU Benchmark Regulation, the U.K. Benchmark Regulation and the Australian Benchmark Regulation are similar. Indices currently maintains a benchmark administrator in both the Netherlands (authorized by the Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM)) for its benchmark activities in the European Union and in the United Kingdom (authorized by the Financial Conduct Authority) for its benchmark activities in the United Kingdom. The Australian Benchmark Regulation requires a license from the Australian Securities and Investment Commission (“ASIC”), which Indices has obtained. These benchmark regulations have and may continue to cause increased operating obligations, exposure, compliance risk, and costs of doing business for Indices. In July of 2013, IOSCO issued its Principles for Financial Benchmarks (the “Financial Benchmark Principles”), intended to promote the reliability of financial benchmarks. The Financial Benchmark Principles address governance, benchmark quality and accountability mechanisms, including with regard to the indices published by Indices. Indices has taken steps to align its governance regime, control framework and operations with the Financial Benchmark Principles and engages an independent auditor to perform an annual reasonable assurance review of its adherence to the Financial Benchmark Principles. From time to time, government and self-regulatory agencies in jurisdictions where we operate conduct market studies on our markets, which may result in the imposition of remedies that impact our business. For a further discussion of competitive and other risks inherent in our Indices business, see Item 1A, Risk Factors , in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For a further discussion of the legal and regulatory environment in our Indices business, see Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements under Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Engineering Solutions As of May 2, 2023, we completed the sale of Engineering Solutions, a provider of engineering standards and related technical knowledge, and the results are included through that date. See Note 2 - Acquisitions and Divestitures to the consolidated financial statements under Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information on the sale of Engineering Solutions and the merger with IHS Markit. Engineering Solutions included our Product Design offerings that provided technical professionals with the information and insight required to more effectively design products, optimize engineering projects and outcomes, solve technical problems and address complex supply chain issues. Our offerings utilized advanced knowledge discovery technologies, research tools, and software-based engineering decision engines to advance innovation, maximize productivity, improve quality and reduce risk. 61 Table of Contents Engineering Solutions’ revenue was generated primarily through the following sources: • Subscription revenue — primarily from subscriptions to our Product Design offerings providing standards, codes and specifications; applied technical reference; engineering journals, reports, best practices, and other vetted technical reference; and patents and patent applications, which includes Engineering Workbench; Goldfire’s cognitive search and other advanced knowledge discovery capabilities that help pinpoint answers buried in enterprise systems and unstructured data enabling engineers and technical professionals to accelerate problem solving; and • Non-subscription revenue — primarily from retail transaction and consulting services. The following table provides revenue and segment operating profit information for the years ended December 31: N/M- Represents a change equal to or in excess of 100% or not meaningful 1 2023 includes amortization of intangibles from acquisitions of $1 million. 2022 includes employee severance charges of $4 million and amortization of intangibles from acquisitions of $35 million. 2023 Revenue decreased 59% as a result of the sale of Engineering Solutions. Operating profit increased 24%. Excluding the impact of higher amortization of intangibles from acquisitions in 2022 of 77 percentage points and employee severance charges in 2022 of 10 percentage points, operating profit decreased 63% as a result of the sale of Engineering Solutions. As of May 2, 2023, we completed the sale of Engineering Solutions and the results are included through that date. The Engineering Solutions business was acquired in connection with the merger with IHS Markit on February 28, 2022 and the financial results are included since the date of acquisition through May 2, 2023. Legal and Regulatory Environment The legal and regulatory environment for the Engineering Solutions business is similar to our Mobility Business. See “ Mobility – Legal and Regulatory Environment ” above for additional details about the legal and regulatory environment for our Engineering Solutions business. For a further discussion of competitive and other risks inherent in our Engineering Solutions business, see Item 1A, Risk Factors , in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For a further discussion of the legal and regulatory environment in our Engineering Solutions business, see Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements under Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 62 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES We continue to maintain a strong financial position. Our primary source of funds for operations is cash from our businesses and our core businesses have been strong cash generators. In 2024, cash on hand, cash flows from operations and availability under our existing credit facility are expected to be sufficient to meet any additional operating and recurring cash needs in the short term and into the foreseeable future. We use our cash for a variety of needs, including but not limited to: ongoing investments in our businesses, strategic acquisitions, share repurchases, dividends, repayment of debt, capital expenditures and investment in our infrastructure. Cash Flow Overview Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash were $1.3 billion as of December 31, 2023 and 2022. In 2023, free cash flow increased to $3.3 billion compared to $2.2 billion in 2022 primarily due to an increase in cash provided by operating activities as discussed below. Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure and reflects our cash flow provided by operating activities less capital expenditures and distributions to noncontrolling interest holders. Capital expenditures include purchases of property and equipment and additions to technology projects. See “Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Information” below for a reconciliation of cash flow provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure, to free cash flow. Operating activities Cash provided by operating activities increased to $3.7 billion in 2023 as compared to $2.6 billion in 2022. The increase is mainly due to higher operating results in 2023, higher IHS Markit merger costs in 2022, higher taxes paid on divestitures in 2022 and a grant payment to the S&P Global Foundation in 2022. Cash provided by operating activities decreased to $2.6 billion in 2022 as compared to 2021. The decrease is mainly due to a decrease in operating results, an increase in IHS Markit merger costs, higher taxes paid on divestitures and a grant payment to the S&P Global Foundation in 2022. During 2023, our cash taxes were adversely impacted by the requirement to capitalize and amortize research and development expenses under Section 174. Although Congress is considering legislation that would reinstate and extend Section 174 expensing for certain research and experimental expenditures, the possibility that this will happen is uncertain. Refer to Note 4 – Taxes on Income to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”) introduced an international tax framework under Pillar Two which includes a global minimum tax of 15%. This framework has been implemented by several jurisdictions, including jurisdictions in which we operate, with effect from January 1, 2024, and many other jurisdictions are in the process of implementing it. The Company is currently monitoring these developments and is in the process of evaluating the potential impact on its consolidated financial statements. Investing activities Our cash outflows from investing activities are primarily for acquisitions and capital expenditures, while cash inflows are primarily proceeds from dispositions. Cash provided by investing activities was $0.6 billion for 2023 as compared to $3.6 billion in 2022, primarily due to higher cash proceeds received from dispositions in 2022 related to the dispositions of CUSIP Global Services, Oil Price Information Services, the Leveraged Commentary and Data business and a related family of leveraged loan indices, and the Base Chemicals business. Cash provided by investing activities was $3.6 billion for 2022 as compared to cash used for investing activities of $0.1 billion in 2021, primarily due to cash received from the dispositions of CUSIP Global Services, Oil Price Information Services, the 63 Table of Contents Leveraged Commentary and Data business and a related family of leveraged loan indices, and the Base Chemicals business in 2022. Refer to Note 2 – Acquisitions and Divestitures to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. Financing activities Our cash outflows from financing activities consist primarily of share repurchases, dividends and repayment of short-term and long-term debt, while cash inflows are primarily inflows from long-term and short-term debt borrowings and proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Cash used for financing activities decreased to $4.3 billion in 2023 from $11.3 billion in 2022. The decrease is primarily attributable to a decrease in cash used for share repurchases in 2023. Cash used for financing activities increased to $11.3 billion in 2022 from $1.0 billion in 2021. The increase is primarily attributable to an increase in cash used for share repurchases in 2022. During the year ended December 31, 2023, we purchased a total of 8.6 million shares for $3.3 billion of cash. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we purchased a total of 33.5 million shares for $12.0 billion of cash. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we did not use cash to purchase any shares. See Note 9 — Equity to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for information related to our accelerated share repurchase (“ASR”) agreements. On June 22, 2022, the Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program authorizing the purchase of 30 million shares (the “2022 Repurchase Program”), which was approximately 9% of the total shares of our outstanding common stock at that time. On January 29, 2020, the Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program authorizing the purchase of 30 million shares (the “2020 Repurchase Program”), which was approximately 12% of the total shares of our outstanding common stock at that time. As of December 31, 2023, 18.7 million shares remained available under the 2022 Repurchase Program and the 2020 Repurchase Program was completed. Additional Financing We have the ability to borrow a total of $2.0 billion through our commercial paper program, which is supported by our $2.0 billion five-year credit agreement (our “credit facility”) that will terminate on April 26, 2026. As of December 31, 2023, we had no outstanding commercial paper. As of December 31, 2022, there was $188 million of commercial paper outstanding. Commitment fees for the unutilized commitments under the credit facility and applicable margins for borrowings thereunder are linked to the Company achieving three environmental sustainability performance indicators related to emissions, tested annually. We currently pay a commitment fee of 8 basis points. The credit facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants and customary events of default. The occurrence of an event of default could result in an acceleration of the obligations under the credit facility. The only financial covenant required under our credit facility is that our indebtedness to cash flow ratio, as defined in our credit facility, was not greater than 4 to 1, and this covenant level has never been exceeded. Dividends On January 23, 2024, the Board of Directors approved a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.91 per share. Supplemental Guarantor Financial Information The senior notes described below were issued by S&P Global Inc. and are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC, a 100% owned subsidiary of the Company. • On September 12, 2023, we issued $750 million of 5.25% senior notes due in 2033. • On March 1, 2023, S&P Global Inc. issued new senior notes that have been registered with the SEC and guaranteed by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC in exchange for the following series of unregistered senior notes of like principal amount and terms: • $700 million of 4.75% Senior Notes due 2028 that were originally issued on March 2, 2022; • $921 million of 4.25% Senior Notes due 2029 that were originally issued on March 2, 2022; 64 Table of Contents • $1,237 million of 2.45% Senior Notes due 2027 that were originally issued on March 18, 2022; • $1,227 million of 2.70% Sustainability-Linked Senior Notes due 2029 that were originally issued on March 18, 2022; • $1,492 million of 2.90% Senior Notes due 2032 that were originally issued on March 18, 2022; • $974 million of 3.70% Senior Notes due 2052 that were originally issued on March 18, 2022; and • $500 million of 3.90% Senior Notes due 2062 that were originally issued on March 18, 2022. • On August 13, 2020, we issued $600 million of 1.25% senior notes due in 2030 and $700 million of 2.3% senior notes due in 2060. • On November 26, 2019, we issued $500 million of 2.5% senior notes due in 2029 and $600 million of 3.25% senior notes due in 2049. • On May 17, 2018, we issued $500 million of 4.5% senior notes due in 2048. • On September 22, 2016, we issued $500 million of 2.95% senior notes due in 2027. • On May 26, 2015, we issued $700 million of 4.0% senior notes due in 2025. • On November 2, 2007 we issued $400 million of 6.55% Senior Notes due 2037. The notes above are unsecured and unsubordinated and rank equally and ratably with all of our existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated debt. The guarantees are the subsidiary guarantor’s unsecured and unsubordinated debt and rank equally and ratably with all of the subsidiary guarantor’s existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated debt. The guarantees of the subsidiary guarantor may be released and discharged upon (i) a sale or other disposition (including by way of consolidation or merger) of the subsidiary guarantor or the sale or disposition of all or substantially all the assets of the subsidiary guarantor (in each case other than to the Company or a person who, prior to such sale or other disposition, is an affiliate of the Company); (ii) upon defeasance or discharge of any applicable series of the notes, as described above; or (iii) at such time as the subsidiary guarantor ceases to guarantee indebtedness for borrowed money, other than a discharge through payment thereon, under any Credit Facility of the Company, other than any such Credit Facility of the Company the guarantee of which by the subsidiary guarantor will be released concurrently with the release of the subsidiary guarantor’s guarantees of the notes. Other subsidiaries of the Company do not guarantee the registered debt securities of either S&P Global Inc. or Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC (the  “Obligor Group”) which are referred to as the “Non-Obligor Group”. The following tables set forth the summarized financial information of the Obligor Group on a combined basis. This  summarized financial information excludes the Non-Obligor Group. Intercompany balances and transactions between members of the Obligor Group have been eliminated. This information is not intended to present the financial position or results of operations of the Obligor Group in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Summarized results of operations for the year ended December 31 is as follows: Summarized balance sheet information as of December 31 is as follows: Contractual Obligations We typically have various contractual obligations, which are recorded as liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets, while other items, such as certain purchase commitments and other executory contracts, are not recognized, but are disclosed herein. 65 Table of Contents For example, we are contractually committed to contracts for information-technology outsourcing, certain enterprise-wide information-technology software licensing and maintenance. We believe that the amount of cash and cash equivalents on hand, cash flows expected from operations and availability under our credit facility will be adequate for us to execute our business strategy and meet anticipated requirements for lease obligations, capital expenditures, working capital and debt service for 2024. The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of December 31, 2023, over the next several years. Additional details regarding these obligations are provided in the notes to our consolidated financial statements, as referenced in the footnotes to the table: 1 Our debt obligations are described in Note 5 – Debt to our consolidated financial statement. 2 See Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion on our operating lease obligations . 3 Other consists primarily of commitments for unconditional purchase obligations in contracts for information-technology outsourcing and certain enterprise-wide information-technology software licensing and maintenance. As of December 31, 2023, we had $230 million of liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits. We have excluded the liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits from our contractual obligations table because, until formal resolutions are reached, reasonable estimates of the timing of cash settlements with the respective taxing authorities are not practicable. As of December 31, 2023, we have recorded $3.8 billion for our redeemable noncontrolling interest in our S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC partnership discussed in Note 9 – Equity to our consolidated financial statements.  Specifically, this amount relates to the put option under the terms of the operating agreement of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC, whereby, after December 31, 2017, CME Group and CME Group Index Services LLC (“CGIS”) has the right at any time to sell, and we are obligated to buy, at least 20% of their share in S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC. We have excluded this amount from our contractual obligations table because we are uncertain as to the timing and the ultimate amount of the potential payment we may be required to make. We make contributions to our pension and postretirement plans in order to satisfy minimum funding requirements as well as additional contributions that we consider appropriate to improve the funded status of our plans. During 2023, we contributed $10 million to our retirement plans. Expected employer contributions in 2024 are $11 million and $3 million for our retirement and postretirement plans, respectively. In 2024, we may elect to make additional non-required contributions depending on investment performance and the pension plan status. See Note 7 – Employee Benefits to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion. 66 Table of Contents RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure and reflects our cash flow provided by operating activities less capital expenditures and distributions to noncontrolling interest holders. Capital expenditures include purchases of property and equipment and additions to technology projects. Our cash flow provided by operating activities is the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure to free cash flow. We believe the presentation of free cash flow allows our investors to evaluate the cash generated from our underlying operations in a manner similar to the method used by management. We use free cash flow to conduct and evaluate our business because we believe it typically presents a more conservative measure of cash flows since capital expenditures and distributions to noncontrolling interest holders are considered a necessary component of ongoing operations. Free cash flow is useful for management and investors because it allows management and investors to evaluate the cash available to us to prepay debt, make strategic acquisitions and investments and repurchase stock. The presentation of free cash flow is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Free cash flow, as we calculate it, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures employed by other companies. The following table presents a reconciliation of our cash flow provided by operating activities to free cash flow: N/M – Represents a change equal to or in excess of 100% or not meaningful CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions, including those related to revenue recognition, business combinations, allowance for doubtful accounts, valuation of long-lived assets, goodwill and other intangible assets, pension plans, incentive compensation and stock-based compensation, income taxes, contingencies and redeemable noncontrolling interests. We base our estimates on historical experience, current developments and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under these circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about carrying values of assets and liabilities that cannot readily be determined from other sources. There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from those estimates. Management considers an accounting estimate to be critical if it required assumptions to be made that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made and changes in the estimate or different estimates could have a material effect on our results of operations. Management has discussed the development and selection of our critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. The Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosure relating to them in this MD&A. We believe the following critical accounting policies require us to make significant judgments and estimates in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements: 67 Table of Contents Revenue recognition Under ASC 606, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services in an amount that reflects the consideration the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. See Note 1 - Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements for further information. Business combinations We apply the purchase method of accounting to our business combinations. All of the assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and contingent consideration are allocated based on their estimated fair values. Fair value determinations involve significant estimates and assumptions about several highly subjective variables, including future cash flows, discount rates, and expected business performance. There are also different valuation models and inputs for each component, the selection of which requires considerable judgment. Our estimates and assumptions may be based, in part, on the availability of listed market prices or other transparent market data. These determinations will affect the amount of amortization expense recognized in future periods. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe are reasonable, but recognize that the assumptions are inherently uncertain. Depending on the size of the purchase price of a particular acquisition, the mix of intangible assets acquired, and expected business performance, the purchase price allocation could be materially impacted by applying a different set of assumptions and estimates. Allowance for doubtful accounts The allowance for doubtful accounts reserve methodology is based on historical analysis, a review of outstanding balances and current conditions, and by incorporating data points that provide indicators of future economic conditions including forecasted industry default rates and industry index benchmarks. In determining these reserves, we consider, amongst other factors, the financial condition and risk profile of our customers, areas of specific or concentrated risk as well as applicable industry trends or market indicators. The impact on operating profit for a one percentage point change in the allowance for doubtful accounts is approximately $29 million. We incorporate the forecasted impact of future economic conditions into our allowance for doubtful accounts measurement process.  In times of economic turmoil, including COVID-19, our estimates and judgments with respect to the collectability of our receivables are subject to greater uncertainty than in more stable periods. Based on our current outlook these assumptions are not expected to significantly change in 2024. Accounting for the impairment of long-lived assets (including other intangible assets) We evaluate long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Upon such an occurrence, recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by comparing the carrying amount of an asset to current forecasts of undiscounted future net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized equal to the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the asset. For long-lived assets held for sale, assets are written down to fair value, less cost to sell. Fair value is determined based on market evidence, discounted cash flows, appraised values or management’s estimates, depending upon the nature of the assets. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price and related costs over the value assigned to the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets of businesses acquired. As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, the carrying value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets was $35.7 billion and $35.4 billion, respectively. Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized, but instead are tested for impairment annually during the fourth quarter each year or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. Goodwill As part of our annual impairment test of our five reporting units, we initially perform a qualitative analysis evaluating whether any events and circumstances occurred that provide evidence that it is more likely than not that the fair value of any of our reporting units is less than its carrying amount. Reporting units are generally an operating segment or one level below an operating segment. Our qualitative assessment included, but was not limited to, consideration of macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, cost factors, cash flows, changes in key Company personnel and our share price. If, based on our evaluation of the events and circumstances that occurred during the year we do not believe that it is more likely than not that the fair value of any of our reporting units is less than its carrying amount, no quantitative impairment test is performed. Conversely, if the results of our qualitative assessment determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of any of our reporting units is less than its respective carrying amount we perform a quantitative impairment test. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying value, the difference is recognized as an impairment charge. For 2023, based on our qualitative assessments, we determined that it is more likely than not that our reporting units’ fair values were greater than their respective carrying amounts. 68 Table of Contents Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets We evaluate the recoverability of indefinite-lived intangible assets by first performing a qualitative analysis evaluating whether any events and circumstances occurred that provide evidence that it is more likely than not that the indefinite-lived asset is impaired. If, based on our evaluation of the events and circumstances that occurred during the year we do not believe that it is more likely than not that the indefinite-lived asset is impaired, no quantitative impairment test is performed. Conversely, if the results of our qualitative assessment determine that it is more likely than not that the indefinite-lived asset is impaired, a quantitative impairment test is performed. If necessary, an impairment analysis is performed using the income approach to estimate the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset. If the intangible asset carrying value exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Significant judgments inherent in these analyses include estimating the amount and timing of future cash flows and the selection of appropriate discount rates, royalty rates and long-term growth rate assumptions. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value for this indefinite-lived intangible asset and could result in an impairment charge, which could be material to our financial position and results of operations. We performed our impairment assessment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets and concluded that no impairment existed for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021. Retirement plans and postretirement healthcare and other benefits Our employee pension and other postretirement benefit costs and obligations are dependent on assumptions concerning the outcome of future events and circumstances, including compensation increases, long-term return on pension plan assets, discount rates and other factors. In determining such assumptions, we consult with outside actuaries and other advisors where deemed appropriate. In accordance with relevant accounting standards, if actual results differ from our assumptions, such differences are deferred and amortized over the estimated remaining lifetime of the plan participants. While we believe that the assumptions used in these calculations are reasonable, differences in actual experience or changes in assumptions could affect the expense and liabilities related to our pension and other postretirement benefits. The following is a discussion of some significant assumptions that we make in determining costs and obligations for pension and other postretirement benefits: • Discount rate assumptions are based on current yields on high-grade corporate long-term bonds. • The expected return on assets assumption is calculated based on the plan’s asset allocation strategy and projected market returns over the long-term. Our discount rate and return on asset assumptions used to determine the net periodic pension and postretirement benefit cost on our U.S. retirement plans are as follows: As of December 31, 2023, the Company had $1.1 billion in pension benefit obligation for our U.S. retirement plans. A 0.25 percentage point increase or decrease in the discount rate would result in an estimated decrease or increase to the accumulated benefit obligation of approximately $28 million and an increase in 2024 pension expense of approximately $1 million. An increase or decrease of 1 percentage point in the expected rate of return on plan assets would result in a decrease or increase of approximately $14 million to 2024 pension expense. Stock-based compensation Stock-based compensation expense is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized over the requisite service period, which typically is the vesting period. Stock-based compensation is classified as both operating-related expense and selling and general expense in our consolidated statements of income. Income taxes Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to be applied to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in income tax returns. Accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are recognized in interest expense and operating expense, respectively. 69 Table of Contents Judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities and unrecognized tax benefits. In determining the need for a valuation allowance, the historical and projected financial performance of the operation that is recording a net deferred tax asset is considered along with any other pertinent information. We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and various state and foreign jurisdictions, and we are routinely under audit by many different tax authorities. We believe that our accrual for tax liabilities is adequate for all open audit years based on an assessment of many factors including past experience and interpretations of tax law. This assessment relies on estimates and assumptions and may involve a series of complex judgments about future events. It is possible that tax examinations will be settled prior to December 31, 2024. If any of these tax audit settlements do occur within that period, we would make any necessary adjustments to the accrual for unrecognized tax benefits. As of December 31, 2023, we have approximately $7.1 billion of undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, of which $4.3 billion is reinvested indefinitely in our foreign operations. Contingencies We are subject to a number of lawsuits and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. We recognize a liability for such contingencies when both (a) information available prior to issuance of the financial statements indicates that it is probable that a liability had been incurred at the date of the financial statements and (b) the amount of loss can reasonably be estimated. We continually assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to our contingencies, as well as potential amounts or ranges of probable losses, and recognize a liability, if any, for these contingencies based on an analysis of each matter with the assistance of outside legal counsel and, if applicable, other experts. Because many of these matters are resolved over long periods of time, our estimate of liabilities may change due to new developments, changes in assumptions or changes in our strategy related to the matter. When we accrue for loss contingencies and the reasonable estimate of the loss is within a range, we record its best estimate within the range. We disclose an estimated possible loss or a range of loss when it is at least reasonably possible that a loss may have been incurred. Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest The fair value component of the redeemable noncontrolling interest in Indices business is based on a combination of an income and market valuation approach. Our income and market valuation approaches may incorporate Level 3 fair value measures for instances when observable inputs are not available. The more significant judgmental assumptions used to estimate the value of the S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC joint venture include an estimated discount rate, a range of assumptions that form the basis of the expected future net cash flows (e.g., the revenue growth rates and operating margins), and a company specific beta. The significant judgmental assumptions used that incorporate market data, including the relative weighting of market observable information and the comparability of that information in our valuation models, are forward-looking and could be affected by future economic and market conditions. As of December 31, 2023, the Company had $3.8 billion in redeemable noncontrolling interest on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The ultimate amount paid for the redeemable noncontrolling interest in Indices business could be significantly different because the redemption amount depends on the future results of operations of the business. As of December 31, 2023, the weighted average cost of capital used in the Company's income analysis to estimate the fair value of the redeemable noncontrolling interest was 10%. A 0.25 percentage point increase or decrease in the weighted average cost of capital would decrease or increase the redemption value by approximately $81 million or $108 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2023, the terminal growth rate used in the Company's income analysis to estimate the fair value of the redeemable noncontrolling interest was 2.2%. A 0.25 percentage point increase or decrease in the terminal growth rate would increase or decrease the redemption value by approximately $54 million or $27 million, respectively. RECENT ACCOUNTING STANDARDS See Note 1 – Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements for a detailed description of recent accounting standards. We do not expect these recent accounting standards to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity in future periods. 70 Table of Contents