********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

When evaluating our company and its subsidiaries and any investment in our or their securities, you should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report and the other documents we file with the SEC, including documents we file subsequent to this report. We also may be materially harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial. If any of these risks occurs, our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected, our actual results could differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf, and the trading price of our securities and those of our subsidiaries could decline. These risk factors are not prioritized in order of importance or materiality, and they should be read in conjunction with the other information in this report, including the information set forth in the Consolidated Financial Statements and in “Part II – Item 7. MD&A.” RISKS RELATED TO SEMPRA Operational and Structural Risks Sempra’s cash flows, ability to pay dividends and ability to meet its debt obligations largely depend on the performance of its subsidiaries and entities accounted for as equity method investments. We are a holding company and substantially all our assets are owned by our subsidiaries or entities we do not control, including equity method investments. Our ability to pay dividends and meet our debt and other obligations largely depends on cash flows from our subsidiaries and equity method investments, which in turn depend on their ability to execute their business strategies and generate cash flows in excess of their own expenditures, common and preferred dividends (if any) and debt and other obligations. In addition, entities accounted for as equity method investments, which we do not control, and our subsidiaries are all separate and distinct legal entities that are not obligated to pay dividends or make loans or distributions to us and could be precluded from doing so by legislation, regulation, court order or contractual restrictions, in times of financial distress or in other circumstances. The inability to access capital from our subsidiaries and entities accounted for as equity method investments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Sempra’s rights to the assets of its subsidiaries and equity method investments are structurally subordinated to the claims of each entity’s trade and other creditors. In addition, if Sempra is a creditor of any such entity, its rights as a creditor would be effectively subordinated to any security interest in the entity’s assets and any indebtedness of the entity senior to that held by Sempra. Sempra may elect to make capital contributions to its subsidiaries. Unlike a loan, there is no obligation for a subsidiary to repay a capital contribution to its parent, which cannot be accessed by the parent and becomes structurally subordinated to claims by creditors of the applicable subsidiary. Sempra has substantial investments in and obligations arising from businesses it does not control or manage or in which it shares control. We have and make investments in businesses we do not control or manage or in which we share control, including as a result of sales of a portion of our ownership interest in some of our businesses. In some cases, we engage in arrangements with or for these businesses that could expose us to risks in addition to our investment, including guarantees, indemnities and loans. For businesses we do not control, we are subject to the decisions of others, which may not always be in our interest and could negatively affect us. In addition, irrespective of whether or not we control these businesses, we could be responsible for liabilities or losses related to the businesses or elect to make capital contributions to these businesses during times of financial distress that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. We discuss these investments further in Notes 5, 6 and 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. When we share control of a business with other owners, any disagreements among the owners about strategy, financial, operational, transactional or other important matters could hinder the business from moving forward with key initiatives or taking other actions and could negatively affect the relationships among the owners and the efficient functioning of the business. Any such circumstance could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. 34 Our business could be negatively affected by actions of activist shareholders. Activist shareholders may engage in proxy solicitations, advance shareholder proposals or otherwise attempt to effect changes in or assert influence on our board of directors and management. In taking these steps, activist shareholders could seek to acquire our capital stock, which in high volumes could threaten our ability to use some or all of our NOL carryforwards if it results in our corporation undergoing an “ownership change” under applicable tax rules. Responding to activist shareholders could require us to incur legal and advisory fees, proxy solicitation expenses and administrative and associated costs and require time and attention by our board of directors and management, diverting their attention from the pursuit of our business strategies. Any perceived uncertainties about our future direction or control, our ability to execute our strategies, or the composition of our board of directors or management team arising from activist shareholder attention or other action could lead to a perception of instability or a change in the direction of our business, which could be exploited by our competitors and/or other activist shareholders, result in the loss of business opportunities, and make it more difficult to pursue our strategic initiatives or attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Further, any such actions could cause fluctuations in the trading prices of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors. Financial and Capital Stock-Related Risks Any impairment of our assets or investments could negatively impact us. We could experience a reduction in the fair value of our assets, including our long-lived assets, intangible assets or goodwill, and/or our investments that we account for under the equity method upon the occurrence of many of the risks discussed in these risk factors and elsewhere in this report, including any closure of the Aliso Canyon natural gas storage facility without adequate cost recovery, any inability to operate our existing facilities or develop new projects in Mexico due to proposed changes to existing laws or regulations or other circumstances affecting the energy sector or our assets in that country, and more generally any loss of permits or approvals that requires us to adjust or cease certain operations and any investment in capital projects that do not receive required approvals or are changed, abandoned or otherwise not completed. Any such reduction in the fair value of our assets or investments could result in an impairment loss that could materially adversely affect our results of operations for the period in which the charge is recorded. We discuss our impairment testing of long-lived assets and goodwill and the factors considered in such testing in “Part II – Item 7. MD&A – Critical Accounting Estimates” and in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The economic interest, voting rights and market value of our outstanding common and preferred stock may be adversely affected by any additional equity securities we may issue. At February 18, 2022, we have 315,653,893 shares of our common stock and 900,000 shares of our non-convertible series C preferred stock outstanding. We may seek to raise capital by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, which may materially dilute the voting rights and economic interests of holders of our outstanding common and preferred stock and materially adversely affect the trading price of our common and preferred stock. Dividend requirements associated with our preferred stock subject us to risks. Any failure to pay scheduled dividends on our series C preferred stock when due would have a material adverse impact on the market price of our preferred stock, our common stock and our debt securities and would prohibit us, under the terms of the preferred stock, from paying cash dividends on or repurchasing shares of our common stock (subject to limited exceptions) until we have paid all accumulated and unpaid dividends on the preferred stock. Additionally, the terms of the series C preferred stock generally provide that if dividends on any shares of the preferred stock have not been declared and paid or have been declared but not paid for three or more semi-annual dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, the holders of the preferred stock would be entitled to elect two additional members to our board of directors, subject to certain terms and limitations. Our common stock is listed on the Mexican Stock Exchange and registered with the CNBV, which subjects us to additional regulation and liability in Mexico. In addition to being listed for trading on the NYSE, our common stock is listed for trading on the Mexican Stock Exchange and registered with the CNBV. Such listing and registration subjects us to filing and other requirements in Mexico that could increase costs and increase performance risk of personnel given additional responsibilities. In addition, the CNBV, as the Mexican securities market regulator, has the authority to make inspections of Sempra’s business, primarily in the form of requests for information and documents; impose fines or other penalties on Sempra and its directors and officers for violations of Mexican 35 securities laws and regulations; and seek criminal liability for certain actions conducted or with effects in Mexico. The occurrence of any of these risks could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. RISKS RELATED TO ALL SEMPRA BUSINESSES Operational Risks Our businesses are subject to risks arising from their infrastructure and information systems. Our businesses own and operate electric transmission, distribution and storage facilities, natural gas transmission, distribution, regasification, liquefaction and storage facilities and other energy infrastructure, which are, in many cases, interconnected and/or managed by information technology systems. Even though our businesses undertake capital investment projects to construct, replace, maintain, improve and upgrade their respective facilities and information systems, there is a risk of, among other things, potential breakdown or failure of equipment or processes due to aging infrastructure and systems; human error; shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, materials or labor; operational restrictions resulting from environmental requirements or governmental interventions; inability to enter into, maintain, extend or replace long-term supply contracts; and performance below expected levels, and these risks could be amplified while capital investment projects are in process. Because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could also be adversely affected by these or similar events occurring on the systems of such third parties, some of which may be unanticipated or uncontrollable by us. Additional risks associated with the ability of our businesses to safely and reliably operate, maintain, improve and upgrade their respective facilities and systems, many of which are beyond our businesses’ control, include: ▪ failure to meet customer demand for electricity and/or natural gas, including electrical blackout, curtailments or gas outages ▪ natural gas surges into homes or other properties ▪ the release of hazardous or toxic substances into the air, water or soil, including gas leaks ▪ inadequate emergency preparedness plans and the failure to respond effectively to catastrophic events The occurrence of any of these events could affect demand for electricity, natural gas or other forms of energy, cause unplanned outages, damage our businesses’ assets and/or operations, damage the assets and/or operations of third parties on which our businesses rely, damage property owned by customers or others, and cause personal injury or death. Any such outcome could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Our businesses face risks related to the COVID-19 pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has been materially impacting communities, supply chains, economies and markets around the world since March 2020. To date, the COVID-19 pandemic has not had a material impact on our results of operations. However, Sempra and some or all its businesses have been and could continue to be impacted by this pandemic or any future pandemic in a number of ways, including: ▪ Implementing protocols and processes to comply with applicable government mandates related to virus exposure, testing and vaccination ▪ Conducting business with substantial modifications to employee travel and work locations and virtualization of certain business activities, which could result in increased employee turnover or absenteeism, decreased efficiency and productivity and other similar affects that could increase operating costs and jeopardize our ability to satisfy compliance requirements and sustain operations ▪ Disruption in the capital markets, which has affected and could further affect liquidity, strategic initiatives and prospects, including in some cases a slowdown of planned capital spending ▪ Customer-protection measures implemented by SDG&E and SoCalGas, including suspending service disconnections due to nonpayment for all customers (except for SoCalGas’ noncore customers), waiving late payment fees, offering flexible payment plans and automatically enrolling residential and small business customers with past-due balances in long-term repayment plans, which have collectively resulted in a reduction in payments from SDG&E and SoCalGas’ customers and an increase in uncollectible accounts that could become material and may not be fully recoverable ▪ Precautionary, preemptive and responsive actions taken by our current and prospective counterparties, customers and partners, as well as regulators and other governing bodies that affect our businesses, which have affected and could further affect our operations, results, liquidity and ability to pursue capital projects and strategic initiatives Any of these impacts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. We will continue to actively monitor the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and may take further actions that alter our 36 business operations as may be required by federal, state or local authorities, or that we determine are necessary for the safety of our employees, customers, partners and suppliers and, generally, the communities we serve. However, we cannot at this time predict the extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic may further impact our businesses. Severe weather, natural disasters and other similar events could materially adversely affect us. Our facilities and infrastructure, including projects in development and under construction, may be damaged by severe weather, natural disasters, accidents, explosions or acts of terrorism, war or criminality. Because we are in the business of using, storing, transporting and disposing of highly flammable, explosive and radioactive materials and operating highly energized equipment, the risks such incidents may pose to our facilities and infrastructure, as well as the risks to the surrounding communities for which we could be held responsible, are substantially greater than the risks such incidents pose to a typical business. Such incidents could result in business and project development disruptions, power outages, property damage, injuries and loss of life for which we could be liable and could cause secondary incidents that also may have these or other negative effects, such as fires; leaks of natural gas, natural gas odorant, propane, ethane, other GHG emissions or radioactive material; spills or other damage to natural resources; or other nuisances to affected communities. Any of these occurrences could decrease revenues and earnings and/or increase costs, including maintenance costs or restoration expenses, amounts associated with claims against us, and regulatory fines, penalties and disallowances. In some cases, we may be liable for damages even though we are not at fault, such as when the doctrine of inverse condemnation applies, which we discuss further below under “Risks Related to Sempra California – Operational Risks.” For our regulated utilities, these costs may not be recoverable in rates. Insurance coverage for these costs may increase or become prohibitively expensive, be disputed by insurers, or become unavailable for certain of these risks or at sufficient levels, and any insurance proceeds may be insufficient to cover our losses or liabilities due to limitations, exclusions, high deductibles, failure to comply with procedural requirements or other factors. Such incidents that do not directly affect our facilities may impact our business partners, supply chains and transportation, which could negatively impact construction projects and our ability to provide electricity and natural gas to customers. Moreover, weather-related incidents have become more prevalent, unpredictable and severe as a result of climate change or other factors, and we are currently experiencing a global pandemic, any of which could have a greater impact on our businesses than currently anticipated and, for our regulated utilities, rates may not be adequately or timely adjusted to reflect any such increased impact. Any such incident could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. We seek growth opportunities in the market organically and inorganically, including through the acquisition of, or partnerships in, operating companies. We diligently analyze the financial viability of each acquisition, partnership and JV we pursue. However, our diligence may prove to be insufficient, and there could be difficulties in integrating acquired assets to our standards or in a timely manner or latent unforeseen defects. In addition, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from future acquisitions, partnerships or JVs such as increased earnings, cost savings, or revenue enhancements, for various reasons, including difficulties integrating operations and personnel, higher and unexpected acquisition and operating costs, unknown liabilities, and fluctuations in markets. Any of these outcomes could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Increasing activities and projects intended to advance new energy technologies could introduce new risks to our businesses. We may periodically undertake or become involved in research and development projects and other activities designed to develop new technologies in the energy space, including those related to hydrogen, energy storage, carbon sequestration, grid modernization and others. These activities and projects can involve significant employee time, as well as substantial capital resources that may not be recoverable in rates or, with respect to our non-regulated utility businesses, may not be able to be passed through to customers. In addition, the timing to complete these activities and projects is inherently uncertain and may require significantly more time and funding than we initially anticipate. Moreover, many of these technologies are in the early stage of development, and the applicable activities and projects may not be completed or the applicable technologies may not prove economically and technically feasible. If any of these circumstances occurs, we may not recover or receive an adequate or any return on our investment and other resources invested in these activities and our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. The operation of our facilities depends on good labor relations with our employees. Several of our businesses have in place collective bargaining agreements with different labor unions, which are generally negotiated on a company-by-company basis. Any failure to negotiate and reach an agreement on these labor contracts could result in strikes, boycotts or other labor disruptions. Any such labor disruption or negotiated wage or benefit increases, whether due to 37 union activities, employee turnover or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. In addition to general information and cyber risks that all large corporations face, we face evolving cybersecurity risks associated with protecting sensitive and confidential customer and employee information and energy grid, natural gas pipeline, storage and other infrastructure. Our businesses collect and retain sensitive information, including personal identification information about customers and employees, and our operations rely on complex, interconnected networks of generation, transmission, distribution, storage, control, and communication technologies and systems. Our use of business technologies, including deployment of any new technologies, represents a large-scale opportunity for attacks on or other failures to protect our information systems, confidential information and energy grid and natural gas infrastructure. In particular, cyber- and other attacks targeting utility systems and other energy infrastructures, as well as the impacts of these attacks on companies and their communities, are increasing in sophistication, magnitude and frequency and may further increase in the event of geopolitical events and other uncertainties, such as the conflict in Ukraine. Additionally, SDG&E and SoCalGas are increasingly required to disclose large amounts of data (including customer energy usage and personal information about customers) to support changes to California’s electricity market related to grid modernization and customer choice, increasing the risks of inadvertent disclosure or other unauthorized access of sensitive information. Further, the virtualization of many business activities during the COVID-19 pandemic increases cyber risk, and generally there has been an associated increase in targeted cyber-attacks. Moreover, all our businesses operating in California are subject to enhanced state privacy laws, which require companies that collect information about California residents to, among other things, make disclosures to consumers about their data collection, use and sharing practices; allow consumers to opt out of certain data sharing with third parties; and be liable under a new cause of action for breaches of certain highly sensitive personal information, and other states in which we do business could adopt similar laws. Although we invest in risk management and information security measures for the protection of our systems and information, these measures could be insufficient or otherwise fail. The costs and operational consequences of implementing, maintaining and enhancing these protection measures are significant, and they could materially increase to address increasingly intense and complex cyber risks. We often rely on third-party vendors to deploy new business technologies and maintain, modify and update our systems, and these third parties may not have adequate risk management and information security measures with respect to their systems. Any cyber-attack, including ransomware attacks, on our or our vendors’ information systems or the integrity of the energy grid, our pipelines or our distribution, storage and other infrastructure, or unauthorized access, damage or improper disclosure of confidential information, could result in disruptions to our business operations, regulatory compliance failures, inabilities to produce accurate and timely financial statements, energy delivery failures, financial and reputational loss, customer dissatisfaction, litigation, violation of privacy laws and fines or penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Although Sempra currently maintains cyber liability insurance, this insurance is limited in scope and subject to exceptions, conditions and coverage limitations and may not cover any or even a substantial portion of the costs associated with any compromise of our information systems or confidential information, and there is no guarantee that the insurance we currently maintain will continue to be available at rates we believe are commercially reasonable. Financial Risks Our debt service obligations expose us to risks, and with respect to Sempra, could require additional equity securities issuances. Our businesses have debt service obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects by, among other things: ▪ making it more difficult and costly for each of these businesses to service, pay or refinance their debts as they become due, particularly during adverse economic or industry conditions ▪ limiting flexibility to pursue strategic opportunities or react to business developments or changes in the industry sectors in which they operate ▪ requiring cash to be used for debt service payments, thereby reducing the cash available for other purposes ▪ causing lenders to require materially adverse terms in the instruments for new debt, such as restrictions on uses of proceeds or other assets or limitations on incurring additional debt, creating liens, paying dividends, repurchasing stock, making investments or receiving distributions from subsidiaries or equity method investments 38 Sempra’s goal is to maintain or improve its credit ratings, but it may not be able to do so. To maintain these credit ratings, we may seek to reduce our outstanding indebtedness with the proceeds from issuances of equity securities. We may not be able to complete equity issuances on terms we consider acceptable or at all, and any new equity we do issue may dilute the voting rights and economic interests of existing holders of Sempra’s common and/or preferred stock. Any such outcome could have a material adverse effect on Sempra’s results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. The availability and cost of debt or equity financing could be negatively affected by market and economic conditions and other factors, and any such effects could materially adversely affect us . Our businesses are capital-intensive. In general, we rely on long-term debt to fund a significant portion of our capital expenditures and repay outstanding debt and short-term borrowings to fund a significant portion of day-to-day business operations. Sempra may also seek to raise capital by issuing equity or selling equity interests in our subsidiaries or investments. Limitations on the availability of credit, increases in interest rates or credit spreads or other negative effects on the terms of any debt or equity financing could cause us to fund operations and capital expenditures at a higher cost or fail to raise our targeted amount of funding, which could negatively impact our ability to meet contractual and other commitments, pursue development projects, make non-safety related capital expenditures and sustain operations. Any of these outcomes could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. In addition to market and economic conditions, factors that can affect the availability and cost of capital include: ▪ adverse changes to laws and regulations, including the recent and proposed changes to the regulation of the energy market in Mexico ▪ the overall health of the energy industry ▪ volatility in electricity or natural gas prices ▪ for Sempra, SDG&E and SoCalGas, risks related to California wildfires ▪ for Sempra, SDG&E and SoCalGas, any deterioration of or uncertainty in the political or regulatory environment for local natural gas distribution companies operating in California ▪ credit ratings downgrades We are subject to risks due to uncertainty relating to the calculation of LIBOR and its scheduled discontinuance. Certain of our financial and commercial agreements, including those for variable rate indebtedness, as well as interest rate derivatives, incorporate LIBOR as a benchmark for establishing certain rates. As directed by the U.S. Federal Reserve, banks ceased making new LIBOR-based issuances at the end of 2021, and publication of certain key U.S. dollar LIBOR tenors for existing loans is expected to cease in mid-2023. These events could cause LIBOR to perform differently than it has performed historically. Use of the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), which has been identified as the replacement benchmark rate for LIBOR, may result in interest payments that are higher than expected or that do not otherwise correlate over time with the payments that would have been made using LIBOR. Changes to or the discontinuance of LIBOR, any uncertainty regarding such changes or discontinuance, and the performance and characteristics of alternative benchmark rates, could negatively affect our existing and future variable rate indebtedness and interest rate hedges and the cost of doing business under our commercial agreements that incorporate LIBOR, and could require us to seek to amend the terms of the relevant indebtedness or agreements, which may be materially worse than existing terms. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Credit rating agencies may downgrade our credit ratings or place those ratings on negative outlook. Credit rating agencies routinely evaluate Sempra, SDG&E, SoCalGas and SI Partners and certain of our other businesses and their ratings are based on a number of factors, including the factors described below and the ability to generate cash flows; level of indebtedness; overall financial strength; specific transactions or events, such as share repurchases and significant litigation; the status of certain capital projects; and the state of the economy and our industry generally. These credit ratings could be downgraded, or other negative credit rating actions could occur at any time. We discuss these credit ratings further in “Part II – Item 7. MD&A – Capital Resources and Liquidity.” For Sempra, Moody’s, S&P and Fitch (collectively, the Rating Agencies) have noted that the following events, among others, could lead to negative ratings actions: ▪ expansion of natural gas liquefaction projects or other unregulated businesses in a manner inconsistent with its present level of credit quality ▪ Sempra’s consolidated financial measures do not improve, or it fails to meet certain financial credit metrics 39 ▪ catastrophic wildfires caused by SDG&E, or catastrophic wildfires caused by any California electric IOUs that participate in the Wildfire Fund, which could exhaust the fund considerably earlier than expected ▪ a ratings downgrade at SDG&E, SoCalGas and/or SI Partners For SDG&E, the Rating Agencies have noted that the following events, among others, could lead to negative ratings actions: ▪ catastrophic wildfires caused by SDG&E or other California electric IOUs ▪ a consistent weakening of SDG&E’s financial metrics or a deterioration in the regulatory environment ▪ a ratings downgrade at Sempra For SoCalGas, the Rating Agencies have noted that the following events, among others, could lead to negative ratings actions: ▪ SoCalGas’ financial measures consistently weaken, or it fails to meet certain financial credit metrics ▪ SoCalGas experiences increased business risk, including a deterioration in the regulatory environment, leading to weakening of its stand-alone business risk profile ▪ a ratings downgrade at Sempra For SI Partners, the Rating Agencies have noted that the following events, among others, could lead to negative ratings actions: ▪ SI Partners’ failure to meet certain financial credit metrics ▪ a deterioration in SI Partners’ business risk profile, including incremental construction risk or adverse changes in the operating environment in Mexico ▪ a ratings downgrade at Sempra A downgrade of any of our businesses’ credit ratings or ratings outlooks, as well as the reasons for such downgrades, may materially adversely affect the market prices of our equity and debt securities, the interest rates at which borrowings can be made and debt securities issued, and the various fees on credit facilities. This could make it more costly for the affected businesses to borrow money, issue equity or debt securities and/or raise other types of capital, any of which could materially adversely affect our ability to meet our debt obligations and contractual commitments, and our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. We do not fully hedge our assets or contract positions against changes in commodity prices, and for those contract positions that are hedged, our hedging procedures may not mitigate our risk as expected. We may use forward contracts, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps and/or options, among others, to hedge our known or anticipated purchase and sale commitments, inventories of natural gas and LNG, natural gas storage and pipeline capacity and electric generation capacity to try to reduce our financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations. We do not hedge the entire exposure to market price volatility of our assets or our contract positions, and the extent of the coverage to these exposures varies over time. To the extent we have unhedged positions, or if our hedging strategies do not work as expected, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Certain of the contracts we may use for hedging purposes are subject to fair value accounting, which may result in gains or losses in earnings for those contracts that may not reflect the associated gains or losses of the underlying position being hedged and could result in fluctuations of our results from period to period. Risk management procedures may not prevent or mitigate losses. Although we have in place risk management and control systems designed to quantify and manage risk, these systems may not prevent material losses. Risk management procedures may not always be followed as intended or function as expected. In addition, daily value-at-risk and loss limits, which are primarily based on historic price movements and which we discuss further in “Part II – Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” may not protect us from losses if prices significantly or persistently deviate from historic prices. As a result of these and other factors, our risk management procedures and systems may not prevent or mitigate losses that could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Market performance or changes in other assumptions could require unplanned contributions to pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Sempra, SDG&E and SoCalGas provide defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefits to eligible employees and retirees. The cost of providing these benefits is affected by many factors, including the market value of plan assets and the other factors described in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. A decline in the market value of plan assets or an adverse change in any of these other factors could cause a material increase in our funding obligations for these plans, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. 40 Legal and Regulatory Risks Our businesses require numerous permits, licenses, franchises and other approvals from various governmental agencies, and the failure to obtain or maintain any of them could materially adversely affect us. Our businesses require numerous permits, licenses, rights-of-way, franchises, certificates and other approvals from federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies. These approvals may not be granted in a timely manner or at all or may be modified, rescinded or fail to be extended for a variety of reasons. Obtaining or maintaining these approvals could result in higher costs or the imposition of conditions or restrictions on our operations. Further, these approvals require compliance by us and may require compliance by our customers, which could result in modification, suspension or rescission and subject us to fines and penalties if these requirements are not complied with. If one or more of these approvals were to be suspended, rescinded or otherwise terminated, including due to expiration or legal or regulatory changes, or modified in a manner that makes our continued operation of the applicable business prohibitively expensive or otherwise undesirable or impossible, we may be required to adjust or temporarily or permanently cease certain of our operations, sell the associated assets or remove them from service and/or construct new assets intended to bypass the impacted area, in which case we may lose some of our rate base or revenue-generating assets, our development projects may be negatively affected and we may incur impairment charges or other costs that may not be recoverable. The occurrence of any of these events could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. We may invest funds in capital projects prior to receiving all regulatory approvals. If there is a delay in obtaining these approvals; if any approval is conditioned on changes or other requirements that increase costs or impose restrictions on our existing or planned operations; if we fail to obtain or maintain these approvals or comply with them or other applicable laws or regulations; if we are involved in litigation that adversely impacts any approval or rights to the applicable property; or if management decides not to proceed with a project, we may be unable to recover any or all amounts invested in that project. Any such occurrence could cause our costs to materially increase, result in material impairments, and otherwise materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Our businesses are facing climate change concerns and have environmental compliance costs, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impacts have the potential to affect our businesses in many ways, including increasing the costs we incur in providing our services and the energy we transmit, impacting the demand for and consumption of our services and the energy we transmit (due to changes in both costs and weather patterns), and affecting the economic health of the regions in which we operate. Energy customers are also increasingly indicating preferences for carbon-neutral and renewable sources of energy. Our businesses are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign statutes, orders, rules and regulations relating to environmental protection and climate change. To comply with these legal requirements, we must spend significant amounts on environmental monitoring and surveillance, pollution control equipment, mitigation costs and emissions fees, and these amounts could increase as a result of various factors we may not control, including if requirements change, enforcement of requirements increases, permits are not issued, renewed or amended as anticipated, energy demands increase or our mix of energy supplies changes. In addition, we may be responsible for on-site liabilities associated with the environmental and site condition of our projects and properties, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown, which exposes us to risks arising from contamination at our existing and former facilities and off-site waste disposal sites that have been used in our operations. For our regulated utilities, some of these costs may not be recoverable in rates. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations may subject our businesses to fines and penalties, including criminal penalties in some cases, and/or curtailments of our operations. Any of these outcomes could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Increasing international, national, regional and state-level environmental concerns and related new or proposed legislation and regulation or changes to existing legislation or regulation, such as increased requirements for monitoring and surveillance, pollution monitoring and control equipment, safety practices, emission fees, taxes, penalties or other obligations or restrictions, may have material negative effects on our operations, operating costs, corporate planning and the scope and economics of proposed expansions, infrastructure projects or other capital expenditures. In particular, existing and potential new or amended legislation and regulation relating to the control and reduction of GHG emissions and climate change may materially restrict our operations, negatively impact demand for our services and/or the energy we transmit, limit development opportunities, force costly or otherwise burdensome changes to our operations or otherwise materially adversely affect us. For example, SB 100 requires each California electric utility, including SDG&E, to procure at least 50% of its annual electric energy requirements from renewable energy sources by 2026, and 60% by 2030. SB 100 also creates the policy of meeting all of California’s retail 41 electricity supply with a mix of RPS Program-eligible and zero-carbon resources by 2045. The law also includes stipulations that this policy not increase carbon emissions elsewhere in the western grid and not allow resource shuffling, and requires that the CPUC, CEC, CARB and other state agencies incorporate this policy into all relevant planning. In addition to signing SB 100 into law, the then-Governor of California also signed an executive order establishing a new statewide goal to achieve carbon neutrality as soon as possible, and no later than 2045, and achieve and maintain net negative emissions thereafter. The executive order calls on CARB to address this goal in future scoping plans, which affect several major sectors of California’s economy, including transportation, agriculture, development, industrial and others. California has issued new climate initiatives in line with this statewide goal, including two executive orders requiring sales of all passenger vehicles to be zero-emission by 2035. Moreover, shifts in investor sentiment regarding fossil fuels is leading some to reduce investment in or divest from the sector completely. Maintaining investor confidence and attracting capital will be dependent on successfully demonstrating our ability to reduce emissions associated with our operations and the energy we transmit, consistent with our aim to have net-zero emissions by 2050. Our ability to reach net-zero emissions by 2050 depends on many factors, some of which we do not control, including supportive energy laws and policies, development and availability of alternative fuels, successful research and development efforts focused on low-carbon technologies that are economically and technically feasible, cooperation from our partners, financing sources and commercial counterparties, and customer participation in conservation and energy efficiency programs. Although we have developed interim targets and various plans designed to support California in reaching its GHG emissions mandates, including SB 100, and our own energy goals, we may not be successful. We will need to continue to make capital expenditures and incur costs to develop and deploy new technologies and modernize grid systems in our efforts to achieve our climate targets and those mandated by applicable authorities, which may not be recoverable in rates or, with respect to our non-regulated utility businesses, may not be able to be passed through to customers. Even if such costs are recoverable, the resulting rates or other costs to customers may increase to levels that reduce customer demand and growth. SDG&E and SoCalGas, as well as any of our other businesses affected by GHG emissions mandates, may also be subject to fines and penalties if mandated renewable energy goals are not met, and all of our businesses could suffer reputational harm if we do not meet or scale back our GHG emissions goals or there are negative views about our environmental practices generally. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Our businesses are subject to numerous governmental regulations and complex tax and accounting requirements and may be materially adversely affected by these regulations or requirements or any changes to them. The electric power and natural gas industries are subject to numerous governmental regulations, and our businesses are also subject to complex tax and accounting requirements. These regulations and requirements may undergo changes at the federal, state, local and foreign levels, including in response to economic or political conditions. Compliance with these regulations and requirements, including in the event of changes to them or how they are implemented, interpreted or enforced, could increase our operating costs and materially adversely affect how we conduct our business. New tax legislation, regulations or interpretations or changes in tax policies in the U.S. or other countries in which we operate or do business could negatively affect our tax expense and/or tax balances and our businesses generally. Any failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could subject us to fines and penalties, including criminal penalties in some cases, and result in the temporary or permanent shutdown of certain facilities or operations. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Our operations are subject to rules relating to transactions among SDG&E, SoCalGas and other Sempra businesses. These rules are commonly referred to as “affiliate rules,” and they primarily impact transmission supply, capacity, and marketing activities, including restricting our ability to sell natural gas or electricity to, or trade with, SDG&E and SoCalGas and its ability to effect these transactions with each other. These rules, as well as any changes to these rules or their interpretations or additional more restrictive CPUC or FERC rules related to transactions with affiliates, could materially adversely affect our operations and, in turn, our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. We may be materially adversely affected by the outcome of litigation or other proceedings in which we are involved. Our businesses are involved in a number of lawsuits, binding arbitrations and regulatory proceedings. We discuss material pending proceedings in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We have spent, and continue to spend, substantial money, time and employee and management focus on these lawsuits and other proceedings and on related investigations and regulatory matters. The uncertainties inherent in lawsuits and other proceedings make it difficult to estimate with any degree of certainty the timing, costs and ranges of costs and effects of resolving these matters. In addition, juries have demonstrated a willingness to grant large awards, including punitive damages, in personal injury, product liability, property 42 damage and other claims. Accordingly, actual costs incurred may differ materially from insured or reserved amounts and may not be recoverable, in whole or in part, by insurance or in rates from customers. Any of the foregoing could cause reputational damage and materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. RISKS RELATED TO SEMPRA CALIFORNIA Operational Risks Wildfires in California pose risks to Sempra California (particularly SDG&E) and Sempra. Potential for Increased and More Severe Wildfires Over the past few years, California has been experiencing some of the largest wildfires (measured by acres burned) in its history. Frequent and more severe drought conditions, inconsistent and extreme swings in precipitation, changes in vegetation, unseasonably warm temperatures, very low humidity, stronger winds and other factors have increased the duration of the wildfire season and the intensity and prevalence of wildfires in California, including in SDG&E’s and SoCalGas’ service territories, and have made these wildfires increasingly difficult to prevent and contain. Changing weather patterns, including as a result of climate change, could cause these conditions to become even more extreme and unpredictable. These wildfires could jeopardize third-party property and SDG&E’s and SoCalGas’ electric and natural gas infrastructure and result in temporary power shortages in SDG&E’s and SoCalGas’ service territories. Certain of California’s local land use policies and forestry management practices have been relaxed to allow for the construction and development of residential and commercial projects in high-risk fire areas, which could lead to increased third-party claims and greater losses in the event of fires in these areas for which SDG&E or SoCalGas may be liable. Any such wildfires in SDG&E’s and SoCalGas’ territories could materially adversely affect SDG&E’s, SoCalGas’ and Sempra’s results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects, which we discuss further in this risk factor below and above under “Risks Related to All Sempra Businesses – Operational Risks.” The Wildfire Legislation In July 2019, the Wildfire Legislation was signed into law, which we discuss in further detail in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Wildfire Legislation’s revised legal standard for the recovery of wildfire costs may not be implemented effectively or applied consistently, we may not be eligible for the Wildfire Legislation’s cap on wildfire-related liability if SDG&E fails to maintain a valid annual safety certification from the OEIS, and/or the Wildfire Fund could be exhausted due to claims against the fund by SDG&E or other participating IOUs as a result of fires in their respective service territories, any of which could have a material adverse effect on Sempra’s and SDG&E’s results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. PG&E has indicated that it will seek reimbursement from the Wildfire Fund for losses associated with the Dixie fire, which burned from July 2021 through October 2021 and was reported to be the largest single wildfire (measured by acres burned) in California history. In addition, the Wildfire Legislation did not change the doctrine of inverse condemnation, which imposes strict liability (meaning that liability is imposed regardless of fault) on a utility whose equipment, such as its electric distribution and transmission lines, is determined to be a cause of a fire. In such an event, the utility would be responsible for the costs of damages, including potential business interruption losses, and interest and attorneys’ fees, even if the utility has not been found negligent. The doctrine of inverse condemnation also is not exclusive of other theories of liability, including if the utility were found negligent, in which case additional liabilities, such as fire suppression, clean-up and evacuation costs, medical expenses, and personal injury, punitive and other damages, could be imposed. We are unable to predict the impact of the Wildfire Legislation on SDG&E’s ability to recover costs and expenses in the event that SDG&E’s equipment is determined to be a cause of a fire, and specifically in the context of the application of inverse condemnation. If a major fire is determined to be caused by SDG&E’s equipment, or if a major fire is determined to be caused by another participating IOU, and the Wildfire Fund is depleted as a result, Sempra’s and SDG&E’s results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. Cost Recovery Through Insurance or Rates As a result of the strict liability standard applied to electric IOU-caused wildfires in California, substantial recent losses recorded by insurance companies, and the risk of an increase in the number and size of wildfires, obtaining insurance coverage for wildfires that could be caused by SDG&E or SoCalGas, particularly SDG&E, has become increasingly difficult and costly. If these conditions continue or worsen, insurance for wildfire liabilities may become unavailable or may become prohibitively expensive and we may be challenged or unsuccessful when we seek recovery of increases in the cost of insurance through the regulatory process. In addition, insurance for wildfire liabilities may not be sufficient to cover all losses we may incur, or it may not be 43 available in sufficient amounts to meet the $1 billion of primary insurance required by the Wildfire Legislation. We are unable to predict whether we would be able to recover in rates or from the Wildfire Fund the amount of any uninsured losses. A loss that is not fully insured, is not sufficiently covered by the Wildfire Fund and/or cannot be recovered in customer rates, such as the CPUC decision denying SDG&E’s recovery of costs related to wildfires in its service territory in 2007, could materially adversely affect Sempra’s and one or both of SDG&E’s and SoCalGas’ results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Wildfire Mitigation Efforts Although we spend significant resources on measures designed to mitigate wildfire risks, these measures may not be effective in preventing wildfires or reducing our wildfire-related losses, and their costs may not be fully recoverable in rates. SDG&E is required by applicable California law to submit annual wildfire mitigation plans for approval by the OEIS and could be subject to increased risks if these plans are not approved in a timely manner and fines or penalties for any failure to comply with the approved plans. One of our wildfire mitigation and safety tools is to de-energize certain of our facilities when certain weather conditions become extreme and there is elevated wildfire ignition risk. These “public safety power shutoffs” have been subject to scrutiny by various stakeholders, including customers, regulators and lawmakers, which could lead to legislation or rulemaking that increases the risk of penalties and liability for damages associated with these events. Such costs may not be recoverable in rates. Unrecoverable costs, adverse legislation or rulemaking, scrutiny by key stakeholders, ineffective wildfire mitigation measures or other negative effects associated with these efforts could materially adversely affect Sempra’s and SDG&E’s results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. The electricity industry is undergoing significant change, including increased deployment of distributed energy resources, technological advancements, and political and regulatory developments. Electric utilities in California are experiencing increasing deployment of distributed energy resources (DERs), such as solar generation, energy storage, energy efficiency and demand response technologies, and California’s environmental policy objectives are accelerating the pace and scope of these changes. This growth of DERs will require modernization of the electric distribution grid to, among other things, accommodate increasing two-way flows of electricity and increase the grid’s capacity to interconnect these resources. In addition, enabling California’s clean energy goals will require sustained investments in grid modernization, renewable integration projects, energy efficiency programs, energy storage options and electric vehicle infrastructure. The growth of the third-party energy storage alternatives and other technologies may increasingly compete with SDG&E’s traditional transmission and distribution infrastructure in delivering electricity to consumers. The CPUC is conducting proceedings to evaluate various projects and pilots; implement changes to the planning and operation of the electric distribution grid to prepare for higher penetration of DERs; consider future grid modernization and grid investments; evaluate if traditional grid investments can be deferred by DERs; determine what, if any, compensation would be feasible and appropriate; and clarify the role of the electric distribution grid operator. These proceedings and the broader changes in California’s electricity industry could result in new regulations, policies and/or operational changes that could materially adversely affect SDG&E’s and Sempra’s results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. SDG&E provides bundled electric procurement service through various resources that are typically procured on a long-term basis. While SDG&E currently provides such procurement service for most of its customer load, some customers can receive procurement service from a load-serving entity other than SDG&E through programs such as CCA and DA. In such cases, SDG&E no longer procures energy for this departing load. CCA is only available if a customer’s local jurisdiction (city) offers such a program and DA is currently limited by a cap based on gigawatt hours. A number of jurisdictions in SDG&E’s territory, including the City and County of San Diego and 14 other municipalities, have implemented, are implementing or are considering implementing CCA. Based on our current expectations, SDG&E could procure energy for less than half of its current customer load by December 31, 2022. SDG&E’s historical energy procurement may exceed the needs of its bundled customers as customers elect CCA and DA service. Accordingly, the associated costs of the utility’s procured resources could then be borne by SDG&E’s remaining bundled procurement customers. Existing state law requires that customers having CCA and DA procure their electricity must absorb the cost of above-market electricity procurement commitments already made by SDG&E on their behalf, which requirements are designed to equitably share costs among customers served by SDG&E and by CCA and DA. If adequate mechanisms are not implemented to help ensure compliance with this law, if the law changes, or if the law does not function as intended to achieve ratepayer indifference, remaining bundled customers of SDG&E could experience large increases in rates for commodity costs under commitments made on behalf of CCA and DA customers prior to their departure or, if all such costs are not recoverable in rates, SDG&E could experience material increases in its unrecoverable commodity costs. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on SDG&E’s and Sempra’s results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. 44 Natural gas and natural gas storage have increasingly been the subject of political and public scrutiny, including a desire by some to reduce or eliminate reliance on natural gas as an energy source. Certain California legislators and stakeholder, advocacy and activist groups have expressed a desire to limit or eliminate reliance on natural gas as an energy source by advocating increased use of renewable electricity and electrification in lieu of the use of natural gas. Reducing methane emissions also has become a major focus of certain U.S. legislators and the current U.S. Administration. Certain California state agencies and city governments have proposed policies or passed ordinances to prohibit or restrict the use and consumption of natural gas in new buildings, appliances and other applications. These policies and ordinances and any other similar regulatory action could have the effect of reducing natural gas use over time. The CPUC has initiated an OIR to, among other things, implement a long-term planning strategy to manage the state’s transition away from natural gas-fueled technologies in an effort to meet California’s decarbonization goals. CARB, California’s primary regulator for GHG emissions reduction programs, continues to pursue plans for reducing GHG emissions in line with California’s climate goals that include proposals to reduce natural gas demand, including more aggressive energy efficiency programs, increased renewable electric generation and replacement of natural gas appliances with electric appliances. A substantial reduction in, or the elimination of, natural gas as an energy source in California could have a material adverse effect on SoCalGas’, SDG&E’s and Sempra’s results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects, including impairment of some or all of SoCalGas’ and SDG&E’s natural gas infrastructure assets if they were not permitted to be repurposed for alternative fuels, required to be depreciated on an accelerated basis or become stranded, without adequate recovery of and on the investments. SDG&E may incur significant costs and liabilities from its partial ownership of a nuclear facility being decommissioned. SDG&E has a 20% ownership interest in SONGS, which we discuss further in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SDG&E and each of the other owners of SONGS is responsible for financing its share of the facility’s expenses and capital expenditures, including those related to decommissioning activities. Although the facility is being decommissioned, SDG&E’s ownership interest in SONGS continues to subject it to risks, including: ▪ the potential release of radioactive material ▪ the potential harmful effects from the former operation of the facility ▪ limitations on the insurance commercially available to cover losses associated with operating and decommissioning the facility ▪ uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning the facility SDG&E maintains the SONGS NDT to provide funds for nuclear decommissioning. Trust assets have been generally invested in equity and debt securities, which are subject to market fluctuations. A decline in the market value of trust assets, an adverse change in the law regarding funding requirements for decommissioning trusts, or changes in assumptions or forecasts related to decommissioning dates, technology and the cost of labor, materials and equipment could increase the funding requirements for these trusts, which costs may not be fully recoverable in rates. In addition, CPUC approval is required to make withdrawals from the NDT, and CPUC approval for certain expenditures may be denied if the CPUC determines the expenditures are unreasonable. In addition, decommissioning may be materially more expensive than we currently anticipate and therefore decommissioning costs may exceed the amounts in the SONGS NDT. Rate recovery for overruns would require CPUC approval, which may not occur. The occurrence of any of these events could result in a reduction in our expected recovery and have a material adverse effect on SDG&E’s and Sempra’s results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Legal and Regulatory Risks SDG&E and SoCalGas are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local legislative and regulatory authorities, which may materially adversely affect Sempra, SDG&E and SoCalGas. Rates and Other Financial Matters The CPUC regulates SDG&E’s and SoCalGas’ customer rates, except for SDG&E’s electric transmission rates that are regulated by the FERC, and conditions of service, as well as its sales of securities, rates of return, capital structure, rates of depreciation, long-term resource procurement and other financial matters in various ratemaking proceedings. The CPUC also periodically approves SDG&E’s and SoCalGas’ customer rates based on authorized capital expenditures, operating costs, including income taxes, and an authorized rate of return on investments while incorporating a risk-based decision-making framework, as well as settlements with third parties. The outcome of ratemaking proceedings can be affected by various factors, many of which are not in our control, including the level of opposition by intervening parties; any rejection by the CPUC of settlements with third 45 parties; potential rate impacts; increasing levels of regulatory review; changes in the political, regulatory, or legislative environments; and the opinions of regulators, consumer and other stakeholder groups and customers. These ratemaking proceedings include decisions about major programs in which SDG&E and SoCalGas make investments under an approved CPUC framework, but which investments may remain subject to a CPUC filing or reasonableness review with unclear standards that may result in the disallowance of incurred costs. SDG&E and SoCalGas also may be required to incur costs and make investments to comply with proposed legislative and regulatory requirements and initiatives, including those related to California’s climate goals and policies, and its ability to recover these costs and investments may depend on the final form of the legislative or regulatory requirements and the ratemaking mechanisms associated with them. Recovery can also be affected by the timing and process of the ratemaking mechanism in which there can be a significant time lag between when costs are incurred and when those costs are recovered in customers’ rates and material differences between the forecasted and authorized costs embedded in rates (which are set on a prospective basis) and the actual costs incurred. The CPUC may also experience delays in its decisions on recovery or may deny recovery altogether on the basis that costs were not reasonably or prudently incurred or for other reasons. Any of these outcomes could materially adversely affect SDG&E’s and SoCalGas’ rates and its and Sempra’s results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. In addition, under the CPUC’s cost of capital framework, SDG&E and SoCalGas are required to file new cost of capital applications every three years. SDG&E’s and SoCalGas’ cost of capital are then assessed in the intervening years through the CCM. The CCM, if triggered by changes in key benchmark interest rates, automatically updates SDG&E’s or SoCalGas’, as applicable, authorized rates of return for that year. For the 12-months ended September 30, 2021, SoCalGas did not trigger the CCM, while SDG&E exceeded its benchmark rate, which would trigger the CCM. The CPUC alternatively provides that SDG&E and SoCalGas each has the right to have its cost of capital assessed through an application based on an extraordinary or catastrophic event that materially impacts its cost of capital and affect utilities differently than the market as a whole. If the CPUC finds that the conditions are met to file such an application, the CCM would not apply. SDG&E has filed an application to have its cost of capital for 2022 assessed through a cost of capital proceeding based on the extraordinary events of the COVID-19 pandemic, rather than have the CCM applied. The CPUC has established a proceeding to determine if SDG&E’s cost of capital was impacted by an extraordinary event. If the CPUC finds that there was not an extraordinary event, the CCM trigger for SDG&E could materially adversely affect the results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects of Sempra and SDG&E. If the CPUC finds that there was an extraordinary event, it will then determine whether to suspend the CCM for 2022 and preserve SDG&E’s current authorized cost of capital or hold a second phase of the proceeding to set a new cost of capital for 2022. We further discuss the CCM, including the impact of SDG&E’s trigger of the CCM in the most recent measurement period, in “Part I – Item 1. Business – Ratemaking Mechanisms – Sempra California – Cost of Capital Proceedings,” and in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The FERC regulates electric transmission rates, the transmission and wholesale sales of electricity in interstate commerce, transmission access, the rates of return on investments in electric transmission assets, and other similar matters involving SDG&E. These ratemaking mechanisms are subject to many risks similar to those described above regarding the CPUC. CPUC Authority Over Operational Matters The CPUC has regulatory authority related to safety standards and practices, competitive conditions , reliability and planning, affiliate relationships and a wide range of other operational matters, including citation programs concerning matters such as safety activity, disconnection and billing practices, resource adequacy and environmental compliance. For example, in June 2019, the CPUC opened an OII to determine whether SoCalGas’ and Sempra’s organizational culture and governance prioritize safety. Phase 1 of the OII involved a CPUC consultant producing a report that evaluates organizational culture, governance, policies, practices, and accountability metrics in relation to operations, including record of safety incidents. In January 2022, the CPUC issued a ruling initiating Phase 2 activities and entering the Phase 1 consultant’s report into the record. Consistent with the recommendations of the Phase 1 consultant’s report, the ruling indicates that Phase 2 will focus on constructive, forward-looking actions intended to improve safety outcomes in the future. Many of these standards and programs are becoming more stringent and could impose severe penalties, including enforcement programs under which the CPUC staff can issue citations that in some cases can impose substantial fines. The CPUC conducts reviews and audits of the matters under its authority and could launch investigations or open proceedings at any time on any such matter it deems appropriate, the results of which could lead to citations, disallowances, fines and penalties, as well as corrective or mitigation actions required to address any noncompliance that may not be sufficiently funded in customer rates or at all. Any such occurrence could have a material adverse effect on Sempra’s, SDG&E’s and SoCalGas’ results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. We discuss various CPUC proceedings relating to SDG&E and SoCalGas in Notes 4, 15 and 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 46 Influence of Other Organizations and Potential Regulatory Changes SDG&E, SoCalGas and Sempra may be materially adversely affected by revisions or reinterpretations of existing or new legislation, regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations of the CPUC, the FERC or other regulatory bodies, any of which could change how SDG&E and SoCalGas operate, affect their ability to recover various costs through rates or adjustment mechanisms, require them to incur additional expenses or otherwise materially adversely affect their and Sempra’s results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. SDG&E and SoCalGas are also affected by numerous advocacy groups, including California Public Advocates Office, The Utility Reform Network, Utility Consumers’ Action Network and the Sierra Club. Any success by any of these groups in directly or indirectly influencing regulatory bodies with authority over our operations could have a material adverse effect on SDG&E’s, SoCalGas’ and Sempra’s results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. SoCalGas has incurred and may continue to incur significant costs, expenses and other liabilities related to the Leak, a substantial portion of which may not be recoverable through insurance. From October 23, 2015 through February 11, 2016, SoCalGas experienced a natural gas leak from one of the injection-and-withdrawal wells, SS25, at its Aliso Canyon natural gas storage facility in Los Angeles County. As further described in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, numerous lawsuits, investigations and regulatory proceedings have been initiated in response to the Leak, resulting in significant costs. Civil Litigation As of February 18, 2022, approximately 390 lawsuits, including approximately 36,000 plaintiffs, two consolidated class action complaints, claims for violations of Proposition 65 and shareholder derivative actions are pending against SoCalGas related to the Leak, some of which have also named Sempra and/or certain officers and directors of SoCalGas and Sempra. Additional litigation, including by public entities, or criminal complaints may be filed against us related to the Leak or our responses to it. All pending cases are coordinated before a single court in the LA Superior Court for pretrial management. Most of the lawsuits are the subject of an agreement entered into in September 2021 that would result in dismissal of the claims therein and releases by all participating plaintiffs of SoCalGas, Sempra and their respective affiliates from all claims related to the Leak. However, this agreement is subject to various conditions to effectiveness, including a minimum participation rate by the applicable plaintiffs and approvals by the LA Superior Court, which may not be satisfied. If these conditions are not satisfied, then the agreement will not become effective and all lawsuits subject to the agreement will remain pending. If these conditions are satisfied, then SoCalGas will be required to make payments of up to $1.8 billion to the participating plaintiffs. The two class action complaints are the subject of agreements also entered into in September 2021 that would result in dismissal of the claims therein and releases by plaintiffs and class members. One of these agreements requires approvals by the LA Superior Court, which may not be satisfied, in which case the complaint will remain pending. If the settlement is approved, then SoCalGas will be required to pay $40 million to a class of property owners. Sempra elected to make an $800 million equity contribution to SoCalGas in September 2021 and may elect to make additional equity contributions in the future that are intended to maintain SoCalGas’ approved capital structure in connection with the accruals related to these agreements. Such amounts, as well as the costs of defending against or settling or otherwise resolving the remaining pending lawsuits, including any lawsuits filed by plaintiffs or class or putative class members who do not agree to settle under or opt out of the agreements described above, and any compensatory, statutory or punitive damages, restitution, and civil, administrative and criminal fines, penalties and other costs, if awarded or imposed, could materially adversely affect SoCalGas’ and Sempra’s results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. We discuss these risks further above under “Risks Related to All Sempra Businesses – Legal and Regulatory Risks” and in this risk factor below under “Insurance and Estimated Costs.” Governmental Investigations, Orders and Additional Regulation In June 2019, the CPUC opened an OII to consider penalties against SoCalGas for the Leak. The first phase will consider, among other things, whether SoCalGas violated applicable laws, CPUC orders or decisions, rules or requirements and whether SoCalGas engaged in unreasonable and/or imprudent practices with respect to its operation and maintenance of the Aliso Canyon natural gas storage facility or its related record-keeping practices. The SED has alleged hundreds of violations in this first phase, asserting that SoCalGas violated California Public Utilities Code Section 451 and failed to cooperate in the investigation and to keep proper records. The second phase will consider whether SoCalGas should be sanctioned for the Leak and what damages, fines or other penalties, if any, should be imposed for any violations, unreasonable or imprudent practices, or failure to sufficiently cooperate with the SED as determined by the CPUC in the first phase. In addition, the second phase will determine the ratemaking treatment or other disposition of costs incurred by SoCalGas in connection with the Leak, which could result in little or no recovery of such costs. SoCalGas has engaged in settlement discussions with the SED in connection with this proceeding. 47 This OII and other investigations into the Leak could result in findings of violations of laws, orders, rules or regulations as well as fines and penalties, any of which could involve substantial costs and cause reputational damage. In addition, SoCalGas may incur higher operating costs and additional capital expenditures as a result of these investigations or new laws, orders, rules and regulations arising out of this incident, or our responses thereto, which may not be recoverable through insurance or in customer rates. The occurrence of any of these risks could materially adversely affect SoCalGas’ and Sempra’s results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Natural Gas Storage Operations and Reliability In February 2017, the CPUC opened a proceeding pursuant to SB 380 OII to determine the feasibility of minimizing or eliminating the use of the Aliso Canyon natural gas storage facility while still maintaining energy and electric reliability for the region, including considering alternative means for meeting or avoiding the demand for the facility’s services if it were eliminated. If the Aliso Canyon natural gas storage facility were to be permanently closed, or if future cash flows from its operation were otherwise insufficient to recover its carrying value, the facility could be impaired, higher than expected operating costs could be incurred and/or additional capital expenditures may be required, any or all of which may not be recoverable in rates, and natural gas reliability and electric generation could be jeopardized. Any such outcome could have a material adverse effect on SoCalGas’ and Sempra’s results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Insurance and Estimated Costs At December 31, 2021, SoCalGas estimates certain costs related to the Leak are $3,221 million (the cost estimate), which includes the $1,279 million of costs recovered or probable of recovery from insurance. This cost estimate may increase significantly as more information becomes available. A portion of the cost estimate has been paid, and $1,983 million is accrued as Reserve for Aliso Canyon Costs at December 31, 2021 on SoCalGas’ and Sempra’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. The civil litigation against us related to the Leak seeks compensatory, statutory and punitive damages, restitution, and civil and administrative fines, penalties and other costs. We also could be subject to damages, fines or other penalties as a result of the pending regulatory investigations and other matters related to the Leak. Except for the amounts paid or estimated to settle certain legal and regulatory matters as described above, the cost estimate does not include litigation, regulatory proceedings or other matters to the extent it is not possible to predict at this time the outcome of these actions or reasonably estimate the possible costs or a range of possible costs for damages, restitution, civil or administrative fines or penalties, defense, settlement or other costs or remedies that may be imposed or incurred. The cost estimate also does not include certain other costs incurred by Sempra associated with defending against shareholder derivative lawsuits and other potential costs that we currently do not anticipate incurring or that we cannot reasonably estimate. Further, we are not able to reasonably estimate the possible loss or a range of possible losses in excess of the amounts accrued. These costs or losses not included in the cost estimate could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on SoCalGas’ and Sempra’s results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. We have received insurance payments for many of the categories of costs included in the cost estimate, and we intend to pursue the full extent of our insurance coverage for the costs we have incurred. Other than insurance for certain future defense costs we may incur as well as directors’ and officers’ liability, we have exhausted all of our insurance in this matter. We continue to pursue other sources of insurance coverage for costs related to this matter, but we may not be successful in obtaining additional insurance recovery for any of these costs. If we are not able to secure additional insurance recovery, if any costs we have recorded as an insurance receivable are not collected, if there are delays in receiving insurance recoveries, or if the insurance recoveries are subject to income taxes while the associated costs are not tax deductible, such amounts, which could be significant, could have a material adverse effect on SoCalGas’ and Sempra’s results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Any failure by the CPUC to adequately reform SDG&E’s rate structure could have a material adverse effect on SDG&E and Sempra. The NEM program is an electric billing tariff mechanism designed to promote the installation of on-site renewable generation (primarily solar installations) for residential and business customers. Under the current mechanism, NEM customers receive a full retail rate for energy they generate but do not use that is fed to the utility’s power grid, which results in these customers not paying their proportionate share of the cost of maintaining and operating the electric transmission and distribution system, subject to certain exceptions, but still receiving electricity from the system when their self-generation is inadequate to meet their electricity needs. As more and higher electric-use customers switch to NEM and self-generate energy, the burden on remaining non-NEM customers, who effectively subsidize the unpaid NEM costs, increases, which in turn encourages more self-generation and further increases rate pressure on remaining non-NEM customers. 48 The current electric residential rate structure in California is primarily based on consumption volume, which places a higher rate burden on customers with higher electric use while subsidizing lower use customers. As of December 31, 2021, the CPUC has declined to adopt a fixed charge independent of consumption volume for residential customers. However, it has advised the utilities to renew their requests for a fixed charge at a later date if such proposals include an adequate customer outreach and communications plan. In August 2020, the CPUC initiated a rulemaking to further develop a successor to the existing NEM tariff. In December 2021, a proposed decision was issued recommending substantial reform of the NEM program through the establishment of a new Net Billing Tariff that would apply to new net metered customers. The new Net Billing Tariff is intended to provide for the payment by new net metered customers of their proportionate share of maintaining and operating the electric transmission and distribution system, which, if the proposed decision is adopted, should reduce the cost-shifting burden from new net metered customers to non-NEM customers. The timing of the final decision is uncertain. Depending on the structure and functionality of the Net Billing Tariff, which is uncertain, the risks associated with the existing NEM tariff could continue or increase. SDG&E believes the establishment of a charge independent of consumption volume for residential customers is critical to help distribute rates among all customers that rely on the electric transmission and distribution system, including those participating in the NEM program. The absence of a charge independent of consumption volume coupled with the continuing increase of solar installation and other forms of self-generation, as well as the progression of distributed energy resources and energy efficiency initiatives that could also reduce delivered volumes, could adversely impact electricity rates and the reliability of the electric transmission and distribution system. Any such impact could subject SDG&E to increased customer dissatisfaction, increased likelihood of noncompliance with CPUC or other safety or operational standards and increased risks attendant to any such noncompliance, as we discuss above, as well as increased costs, including power procurement, operating and capital costs, and potential disallowance of recovery for these costs. If the CPUC fails to adequately reform SDG&E’s rate structure to better achieve reasonable, cost-based electric rates that are competitive with alternative sources of power and adequate to maintain the reliability of the electric transmission and distribution system, such failure could have a material adverse effect on SDG&E’s and Sempra’s results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. RISKS RELATED TO SEMPRA TEXAS UTILITIES Operational and Structural Risks Certain ring-fencing measures, governance mechanisms and commitments limit our ability to influence the management, operations and policies of Oncor. Various “ring-fencing” measures, governance mechanisms and commitments are in place that create legal and financial separation between Oncor Holdings, Oncor and their subsidiaries, on the one hand, and Sempra and its affiliates and subsidiaries, on the other hand. These measures are designed to enhance Oncor’s separateness from its owners and mitigate the risk that Oncor would be negatively impacted by a bankruptcy or other adverse financial development affecting its owners. These measures subject us and Oncor to various restrictions, including: ▪ seven members of Oncor’s 13-person board of directors must be independent directors in all material respects under the rules of the NYSE in relation to Sempra and its affiliates and any other owners of Oncor, and also must have no material relationship with Sempra or its affiliates or any other owners of Oncor currently or within the previous 10 years; of the six remaining directors, two must be designated by Sempra, two must be designated by Oncor’s minority owner, TTI, and two must be current or former Oncor officers ▪ Oncor will not pay dividends or other distributions (except for contractual tax payments) if a majority of its independent directors or any of the directors appointed by TTI determines that it is in the best interest of Oncor to retain such amounts to meet expected future requirements ▪ Oncor will not pay dividends or other distributions (except for contractual tax payments) if that payment would cause its debt-to-equity ratio to exceed the debt-to-equity ratio approved by the PUCT ▪ if Oncor’s senior secured debt credit rating by any of the Rating Agencies falls below BBB (or Baa2 for Moody’s), Oncor will suspend dividends and other distributions (except for contractual tax payments), unless otherwise allowed by the PUCT ▪ there must be certain “separateness measures” maintained to reinforce the legal and financial separation of Oncor from Sempra, including a requirement that dealings between Oncor and Sempra or Sempra’s affiliates (other than Oncor Holdings and its subsidiaries) must be on an arm’s-length basis, limitations on affiliate transactions and a prohibition on pledging Oncor assets or stock for any entity other than Oncor 49 ▪ a majority of Oncor’s independent directors and the directors designated by TTI that are present and voting (with at least one required to be present and voting) must approve any annual or multi-year budget if the aggregate amount of capital expenditures or O&M in such budget is more than a 10% increase or decrease from the corresponding amounts in the budget for the preceding fiscal year or multi-year period, as applicable ▪ Sempra must continue to hold indirectly at least 51% of the ownership interests in Oncor Holdings and Oncor until at least March 9, 2023, unless otherwise authorized by the PUCT As a result of these measures, we do not control Oncor Holdings or Oncor, and we have limited ability to direct the management, policies and operations of Oncor Holdings and Oncor, including the deployment or disposition of their assets, declarations of dividends, strategic planning and other important corporate matters. We have limited representation on the Oncor Holdings and Oncor boards of directors, which are each controlled by independent directors. Moreover, all directors of Oncor, including the directors we have appointed, have considerable autonomy and have a duty to act in the best interest of Oncor consistent with the approved ring-fence and Delaware law, which may in certain cases be contrary to our interests. To the extent the directors approve or Oncor otherwise pursues actions that are not in our interests, our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects may be materially adversely affected. Industry-Related Risks Changes in the regulation or operation of the electric utility industry and/or the ERCOT market could materially adversely affect Oncor, which could materially adversely affect us. Oncor operates in the electric utility industry and, as a result, it is subject to many of the same or similar risks as Sempra California as we describe above under “Risks Related to Sempra California.” In particular, the costs and burdens associated with complying with the various legislative and regulatory requirements to which Oncor is subject at the federal, state, and local levels and adjusting Oncor’s business and operations in response to legislative and regulatory developments, including changes in ERCOT, and any fines or penalties that could result from any noncompliance, may have a material adverse effect on Oncor. In addition, Oncor operates in the ERCOT market and, as a result, any economic weakness or reduced electricity demand in ERCOT could materially adversely affect Oncor. Moreover, legislative, regulatory, market or industry activities could adversely impact Oncor’s collections and cash flows and jeopardize the predictability of utility earnings, including temporary measures such as the approximately four-month long moratorium on customer disconnections due to nonpayment that was in place following an extreme winter weather event and resulting power outages in February 2021, other actions taken by governmental authorities, customers or other third parties to address financial challenges following this event or other similar events, legislation affecting the ERCOT market to address issues with its operation during this event or other similar events or to improve grid reliability generally, or the growth of third-party distributed energy resources and other technologies that may increasingly compete with Oncor’s traditional transmission and distribution infrastructure in delivering electricity to consumers. If Oncor does not successfully respond to any such changes applicable to it, Oncor could suffer a deterioration in its results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Financial Risks Oncor’s operations are capital-intensive, and it could have liquidity needs that necessitate additional investments. Oncor’s business is capital-intensive, and it relies on external financing as a significant source of liquidity for its capital requirements. In the past, Oncor has financed much of its cash needs from operations and with proceeds from indebtedness, but these sources of capital may not be adequate or available in the future. Because our commitments to the PUCT prohibit us from making loans to Oncor, we may elect to make additional capital contributions if Oncor fails to meet its capital requirements or is unable to access sufficient capital to finance its ongoing needs. Any such investments could be substantial, would reduce the cash available to us for other purposes, and could increase our indebtedness, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Sempra could incur substantial tax liabilities if EFH’s 2016 spin-off of Vistra from EFH is deemed to be taxable. As part of its ongoing bankruptcy proceedings, in 2016, EFH distributed all the outstanding shares of common stock of its subsidiary Vistra Energy Corp. (formerly TCEH Corp. and referred to herein as Vistra) to certain creditors of TCEH LLC (the spin-off), and Vistra became an independent, publicly traded company. Vistra’s spin-off from EFH was intended to qualify for partially tax-free treatment to EFH and its shareholders under Sections 368(a)(1)(G), 355 and 356 of the IRC (collectively referred to as the Intended Tax Treatment). In connection with and as a condition to the spin-off, EFH received a private letter ruling from 50 the IRS regarding certain issues relating to the Intended Tax Treatment, as well as tax opinions from counsel to EFH and Vistra regarding certain aspects of the spin-off not covered by the private letter ruling. In connection with the signing and closing of the merger of EFH with an indirect subsidiary of Sempra (the Merger), EFH sought and received a supplemental private letter ruling from the IRS and Sempra and EFH received tax opinions from their respective counsels that generally provide that the Merger will not affect the conclusions reached in, respectively, the IRS private letter ruling and tax opinions issued with respect to the spin-off described above. Similar to the IRS private letter ruling and opinions issued with respect to the spin-off, the supplemental private letter ruling is generally binding on the IRS and any opinions issued with respect to the Merger are based on factual representations and assumptions, as well as certain undertakings, made by Sempra and EFH, now Sempra Texas Holdings Corp. and a subsidiary of Sempra. If such representations and assumptions are untrue or incomplete, any such undertakings are not complied with, or the facts upon which the IRS supplemental private letter ruling or tax opinions (which will not impact the IRS position on the transactions) are based are different from the actual facts relating to the Merger, the tax opinions and/or supplemental private letter ruling may not be valid and could be challenged by the IRS. Even though Sempra Texas Holdings Corp. would have administrative appeal rights if the IRS were to invalidate its private letter ruling and/or supplemental private letter ruling, including the right to challenge any adverse IRS position in court, any such appeal would be subject to uncertainties and could fail. If it is ultimately determined that the Merger caused the spin-off not to qualify for the Intended Tax Treatment, Sempra, through its ownership of Sempra Texas Holdings Corp., could incur substantial tax liabilities, which would materially reduce and potentially eliminate the value associated with our indirect investment in Oncor and could have a material adverse effect on Sempra’s results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects and the market value of its common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. RISKS RELATED TO SEMPRA INFRASTRUCTURE Operational Risks Project development activities may not be successful, projects under construction may not be completed on schedule or within budget, and completed projects may not operate at expected levels, any of which could materially adversely affect us. All Energy Infrastructure Projects We are involved in a number of energy infrastructure projects, which subject us to numerous risks. Success in developing such a project is contingent upon, among other things: ▪ our financial condition and cash flows and other factors that impact our ability to invest sufficient funds into the project, including for preliminary matters that may need to be accomplished before we can determine whether the project is feasible or economically attractive ▪ project assessment and design and our ability to foresee and incorporate new and developing trends and technologies in the energy industry, such as our pursuit of projects and design solutions to help enable our and our customers’ climate goals ▪ our ability to reach a final investment decision or meet other milestones, which may be influenced by external factors outside our control, including the global economy and energy and financial markets, actions by regulators, achieving necessary internal and external approvals, including, as applicable, by all project partners, and many of the other factors described in this risk factor ▪ negotiation of satisfactory EPC agreements, including any renegotiation that may be required in the event of delays in final investment decisions or other failures to meet specified deadlines ▪ progressing relationships from MOUs or similar arrangements, which are nonbinding and generally do not impose obligations on any of the parties, to execution of definitive agreements and participation in the project ▪ identification of suitable partners, customers, suppliers and other necessary counterparties, negotiation of satisfactory equity, purchase, sale, supply, transportation and other appropriate commercial agreements, and satisfaction of any conditions to effectiveness of such agreements, including reaching a final investment decision within agreed timelines ▪ timely receipt and maintenance of required governmental permits, licenses and other authorizations that do not impose material conditions and are otherwise granted under terms we find reasonable ▪ our project partners’, contractors’ and other counterparties’ willingness and financial or other ability to make their required investments or fulfill their contractual commitments on a timely basis ▪ timely, satisfactory and on-budget completion of construction, which could be negatively affected by engineering problems, work stoppages, equipment unavailability, contractor performance and a variety of other factors, many of which we discuss above under “Risks Related to All Sempra Businesses – Operational Risks” and elsewhere in this risk factor 51 ▪ implementation of new or changes to existing laws or regulations that impact our infrastructure or the energy sector generally ▪ obtaining adequate and reasonably priced financing for the project ▪ the absence of hidden defects or inherited environmental liabilities for any project construction ▪ fast and cost-effective resolution of any litigation or unsettled property rights affecting the project ▪ geopolitical events and other uncertainties, such as the conflict in Ukraine Any failures with respect to the above factors or other factors material to any particular project could involve additional costs and otherwise negatively affect our ability to successfully complete the project and force us to impair or write off amounts we have invested in the project. If we are unable to complete a development project, if we experience delays, or if construction, financing or other project costs exceed our estimated budgets and we are required to make additional capital contributions, we may never recover or receive an adequate or any return on our investment and other resources invested in the project and our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. The operation of existing facilities and any future projects we are able to complete involves many risks, including the potential for unforeseen design flaws, engineering challenges, equipment failures or the breakdown for other reasons of facilities, equipment or processes; labor disputes; fuel interruption; environmental contamination; and the other operational risks that we discuss above under “Risks Related to All Sempra Businesses – Operational Risks.” Any of these events could lead to our facilities being idle for an extended period of time or our facilities operating below expected levels, which may result in lost revenues or increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs and penalties. Any such occurrence could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. LNG Export Projects In addition to the risks described above that are applicable to all our energy infrastructure projects, we are exposed to additional risks in connection with our LNG export projects, including the ECA LNG Phase 1 project under construction and our potential development of additional LNG export facilities. We discuss our LNG export projects in “Part II – Item 7. MD&A – Capital Resources and Liquidity – Sempra Infrastructure.” Each of these projects faces numerous risks. Our ability to reach a final investment decision for each project and, if such a decision is reached and a project is completed, the overall success of the project are dependent on global energy markets, including natural gas and oil supply, demand and pricing. In general, depressed natural gas and LNG prices in the markets we intend to serve due to shifts in supply or other factors could reduce the pricing and cost advantages of exporting domestically produced natural gas and LNG, which could lead to decreased demand. In addition, global oil prices and their associated current and forward projections could reduce demand for natural gas and LNG in some sectors. A reduction in natural gas demand could also occur from higher penetration of alternative fuels in new power generation, or as a result of calls by some to limit or eliminate reliance on natural gas as an energy source globally. Oil prices could also make LNG projects in other parts of the world more feasible and competitive with LNG projects in North America, thus increasing supply and competition for any available LNG demand. Any of these developments could impact competition and prospects for developing LNG export projects and negatively affect the performance and prospects of any of our projects that are or become operational. Our proposed projects may face distinct disadvantages relative to some other LNG projects under construction or in development by other project developers, including: ▪ The proposed expansion of the Cameron LNG JV facility (Phase 2) is subject to certain restrictions and conditions under the financing agreements for Phase 1 of the project and requires unanimous consent of all JV partners, including with respect to the equity investment obligations of each partner. We may not be able to satisfy these conditions and requirements, in which case our ability to develop the Phase 2 project would be jeopardized. ▪ Our Port Arthur, Texas project is a greenfield site and therefore is subject to disadvantages relative to brownfield sites, including increased time and costs to develop and construct the project. ▪ The ECA LNG projects are subject to ongoing land and permit disputes that could obstruct efforts to find or maintain suitable partners, customers and financing arrangements and hinder or halt construction and, if the projects are completed, operations. We discuss these risks below and under “Risks Related to Sempra Infrastructure – Legal Risks.” In addition, the Mexican regulatory process and overlay of U.S. regulations for natural gas exports to LNG facilities in Mexico are not well developed, which, among other factors, contributed to delays obtaining a necessary permit from the Mexican government and reaching a final investment decision for the ECA LNG Phase 1 project and could cause similar delays or other hurdles in the future and lead to difficulties finding or maintaining suitable partners, customers and financing arrangements. We have entered into contracts with affiliates and third parties, subject to certain conditions, to supply and transport gas to and across the U.S.-Mexico border to meet the requirements of the ECA LNG Phase 1 project if and when it becomes operational. If affiliates or third parties experience any delays or fail to obtain and maintain necessary permits and arrangements to provide such supply or transportation service or if we fail to maintain adequate gas supply and transportation agreements to support the project fully, it 52 could cause additional costs or delays to the ECA LNG Phase 1 project. Finally, although we have planned measures to not disrupt operations at the ECA Regas Facility with the construction or operation of the ECA LNG Phase 1 project, we expect construction of the proposed ECA LNG Phase 2 project would conflict with ECA Regas Facility operations, making the decision on whether and how to pursue the ECA LNG Phase 2 project dependent in part on whether the investment in this large-scale liquefaction export facility would, over the long term, be more beneficial than continuing to provide regasification services under existing contracts for 100% of the ECA Regas Facility’s capacity through 2028. Development of additional trains and liquefaction facilities will depend on the ability of our existing pipeline interconnections to be expanded or the ability to permit and construct new pipeline facilities, each of which may require us to enter into additional pipeline interconnection agreements with third-party pipelines. We and third parties may not be able to successfully develop and construct such new pipeline facilities, or we may not be able to secure such additional pipeline interconnections on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The capital requirements for natural gas liquefaction and LNG export projects that we have decided, or may in the future decide, to proceed with can be significant. In addition, our proposed facilities may not be completed in accordance with estimated timelines or budgets or at all as a result of the above or other factors, and delays, cost overruns or our inability to complete one or more of these facilities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Financing Arrangements We may become involved in various financing arrangements with respect to any of our energy infrastructure projects, such as guarantees, indemnities or loans. These arrangements could expose us to additional risks, including exposure to losses upon the occurrence of certain events related to the development, construction, operation or financing of the applicable projects, that could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. We are dependent on the equipment provided by third parties to operate Cameron LNG JV’s Phase 1 project and the failure of such equipment may adversely impact our business and performance. Cameron LNG JV has experienced operating issues with equipment provided by certain third-party vendors, which have caused reductions in operating capacity and the declaration of force majeure events by Cameron LNG JV under its tolling agreements. Certain of Cameron LNG JV’s customers have raised objections regarding these force majeure declarations, and Cameron LNG JV’s customers may raise objections in the future regarding these declarations or other force majeure declarations for similar operating issues. Cameron LNG JV’s customers have rights under their tolling agreements to obtain certain future quantities of excess LNG production in connection with these and certain other force majeure events, and future force majeure events may also lead to the additional accrual of similar rights. The requirement to deliver excess LNG production to these customers in connection with these force majeure events has had, and in the future could have, an adverse impact to Sempra Infrastructure’s and our business and cash flows as Cameron LNG JV loses fees related to the excess production. These and other operational issues arising from equipment or facilities provided by third-party vendors may require us to undertake remediation, repair or equipment replacement activities in the future that could result in reductions or cessations in production from our facilities. Although we are seeking to enforce warranty and other claims against our EPC contractors and other equipment vendors and suppliers, we may face challenges in successfully enforcing these claims against these third parties. Any such occurrence could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Hydraulic fracturing is subject to political, economic and other uncertainties. Domestic and international hydraulic fracturing operations face political and economic risks and uncertainties. Several states have imposed or are considering imposing more stringent permitting, public disclosure and well construction requirements, and some local municipalities have adopted or are considering adopting land use restrictions that may restrict or prohibit well drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. We cannot predict whether additional federal, state, local or international laws or regulations applicable to hydraulic fracturing will be enacted and, if so, what actions any such laws or regulations would require or prohibit. The current U.S. Administration may have a negative view of hydraulic fracturing, which could increase the risk of regulation that negatively affects these operations. If additional regulation or permitting requirements are imposed on domestic hydraulic fracturing operations, natural gas prices in North America could rise and the relative pricing advantage in favor of domestic natural gas could decline, which could materially adversely affect demand for LNG exports and our ability to develop commercially viable LNG export facilities beyond Cameron LNG JV Phase 1 and ECA LNG Phase 1 (which are fully contracted). Any such occurrence could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. 53 Fixed-price long-term contracts for services or commodities expose our businesses to inflationary pressures. Sempra Infrastructure seeks to secure long-term contracts with customers for services and commodities in an effort to optimize the use of its facilities, reduce volatility in earnings and support the construction of new infrastructure. If these contracts are at fixed prices, their profitability may be negatively affected by inflationary pressures, including increased labor, materials, equipment, commodities and other operational costs, rising interest rates that affect financing costs and changes in applicable exchange rates. We may try to mitigate these risks by, among other things, using variable pricing tied to market indices, anticipating and providing for cost escalation when bidding on projects, contracting for direct pass-through of operating costs and/or entering into hedges. However, these measures may not fully or substantially offset any increases in operating expenses or financing costs caused by inflationary pressures and their use could introduce additional risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Increased competition could materially adversely affect us. The markets in which we operate are characterized by numerous strong and capable competitors, many of whom have extensive and diversified development and/or operating experience domestically and internationally and financial resources similar to or greater than ours. In particular, the natural gas pipeline, storage and LNG market segments recently have been characterized by strong and increasing competition for winning new development projects and acquiring existing assets. In addition, our Mexican natural gas distribution business faces increased competition now that its former exclusivity period with respect to its distribution zones has expired and other distributors are legally permitted to build and operate natural gas distribution systems and compete to attract customers in the locations where it operates. These competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. We may not be able to enter into, maintain, extend or replace long-term supply, sales or capacity agreements. The ECA Regas Facility has long-term capacity agreements with a limited number of counterparties, and also may enter into short-term and/or long-term supply agreements to purchase LNG to be received, stored and regasified for sale to other parties. In addition, Cameron LNG JV has long-term liquefaction and regasification tolling capacity agreements with three counterparties that collectively subscribe for the full nameplate capacity of its Phase 1 facility. The long-term nature of these agreements and the small number of customers at each of these facilities exposes us to risks, including increased risk if these counterparties fail to meet their contractual obligations on a timely basis, increased credit risks, and risks associated with the long-term nature of our relationships with these counterparties. We are currently engaged in a legal dispute with the two third-party capacity customers, Shell Mexico and Gazprom, at the ECA Regas Facility involving breach of contract claims, a constitutional challenge of the CRE’s approval of the general terms and conditions for service at the facility, and proceedings seeking to modify or revoke certain material permits needed by the facility and the proposed ECA LNG projects. We discuss this dispute in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. These challenges and proceedings or any similar or other issues that arise with respect to these or our other long-term contracts, including the conflict in Ukraine, could lead to significant legal and other costs, result in cancelation of certain key contracts or otherwise adversely affect our relationships with long-term customers, suppliers or partners, and could negatively impact the reliability of revenues from the applicable projects and the prospects for any implicated development projects. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Sempra Infrastructure’s ability to enter into new or replace existing long-term capacity agreements for its natural gas pipeline operations is dependent on, among other factors, demand for and supply of LNG and/or natural gas from its transportation customers, which may include our LNG export facilities. A decrease in demand for or supply of LNG or natural gas from such customers or the occurrence of other events that hinder Sempra Infrastructure from maintaining such agreements or establishing new ones could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. The electric generation and wholesale power sales industries are highly competitive. As more plants are built, supplies of energy and related products may exceed demand, competitive pressures may increase and wholesale electricity prices may decline or become more volatile. Without long-term power sales agreements, our revenues may be subject to increased volatility, and we may be unable to sell the power that Sempra Infrastructure’s facilities are capable of producing or sell it at favorable prices, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Our businesses depend on the performance of counterparties, and any performance failures by these counterparties could materially adversely affect us. Our businesses depend on business partners, customers, suppliers and other counterparties who owe money or commodities as a result of market transactions or other long-term arrangements to perform their obligations in accordance with such arrangements. Should they fail to perform, we may need to enter into alternative arrangements or honor our underlying commitments at then- 54 current market prices, which may result in additional losses to us to the extent of amounts already paid to such counterparties. Any efforts to enforce the terms of these arrangements through legal or other means could involve significant time and costs and would be unpredictable and may not be successful. In addition, many such arrangements, including our relationships with the applicable counterparties, are important for the conduct and growth of our businesses. We also may not be able to secure replacement agreements with other partners, customers or suppliers at all or on terms at least as favorable to the original terms if any of these agreements terminate. Further, we often extend credit to customers and other counterparties and, although we perform credit analyses prior to extending credit, we may not be able to collect the amounts owed to us, which presents an increased risk for our long-term supply, sales and capacity contracts. The failure of any of our counterparties to perform in accordance with their arrangements with us could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Sempra Infrastructure’s obligations and those of its LNG suppliers are contractually subject to suspension or termination for “force majeure” events, which generally are beyond the control of the parties, and limitations of remedies for other failures to perform, including limitations on damages that may prohibit recovery of all costs incurred for any breach of an agreement. Any such occurrence could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Sempra Infrastructure engages in JVs and invests in companies in which other equity partners may have or share with us control over the applicable project or investment. We discuss the risks related to these arrangements above under “Risks Related to Sempra – Operational and Structural Risks.” We rely on transportation assets and services, much of which we do not own or control, to deliver natural gas and electricity. We depend on electric transmission lines, natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities and services owned and operated by third parties to, among other things: ▪ deliver the natural gas, LNG, electricity and LPG we sell to customers or use for our natural gas liquefaction export facilities ▪ supply natural gas to our gas storage and electric generation facilities ▪ provide retail energy services to customers If transportation is disrupted, if the construction of new or modified interconnecting infrastructure is not completed on schedule or if capacity is inadequate, we may not be able to move forward with our projects on schedule, we may be unable to sell and deliver our commodities, electricity and other services to our customers, we may be responsible for damages incurred by these customers, such as the cost of acquiring alternative supplies at then-current spot market rates, and we could lose customers that may be difficult to replace in competitive market conditions. Any such occurrence could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Financial Risks Our international businesses and operations expose us to foreign currency and inflation risks. Our operations in Mexico pose foreign currency and inflation risks. Exchange and inflation rates with respect to the Mexican peso and fluctuations in those rates may have an impact on the revenue, costs and cash flows from our international operations, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. We may attempt to hedge cross-currency transactions and earnings exposure through various means, including financial instruments and short-term investments, but these hedges may not successfully achieve our objectives of mitigating earnings volatility that would otherwise occur due to exchange rate fluctuations. Because we do not hedge our net investments in foreign countries, we are susceptible to volatility in OCI caused by exchange rate fluctuations for entities whose functional currencies are not the U.S. dollar. Moreover, Mexico has experienced periods of high inflation and exchange rate instability in the past, and severe devaluation of the Mexican peso could result in governmental intervention to institute restrictive exchange control policies, as has occurred before in Mexico and other Latin American countries. We discuss our foreign currency exposure at our Mexican subsidiaries in “Part II – Item 7. MD&A” and “Part II – Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Our businesses are exposed to market risks, including fluctuations in commodity prices, that could materially adversely affect us. We buy energy-related commodities from time to time for pipeline operations, LNG facilities or power plants to satisfy contractual obligations with customers. The regional and other markets in which we purchase these commodities are competitive and can be subject to significant pricing volatility as a result of many factors, including adverse weather conditions, supply and demand changes, availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources, commodity production levels and storage 55 capacity, energy and environmental legislation and regulations, and economic and financial market conditions. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected if the prevailing market prices for natural gas, LNG, electricity or other commodities we buy change in a direction or manner not anticipated and for which we have not provided adequately through purchase or sale commitments or other hedging transactions. Legal and Regulatory Risks Our international businesses and operations expose us to increased legal, regulatory, tax, economic, geopolitical and management oversight risks and challenges. Overview We own or have interests in a variety of energy infrastructure assets in Mexico, and we do business with companies based in foreign markets, including particularly our LNG export operations. Conducting these activities in foreign jurisdictions subjects us to complex management, security, political, legal, economic and financial risks that vary by country, many of which may differ from and potentially be greater than those associated with our wholly domestic businesses, and the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. These risks include the following and the other risks discussed in this risk factor below: ▪ tax, trade, environmental and other foreign laws and regulations and compliance with them, including legal limitations on ownership in some foreign countries and inadequate or inconsistent enforcement of regulations ▪ actions by local regulatory bodies, including setting rates and tariffs that may be earned by or charged to our businesses ▪ adverse changes in social, political, economic or market conditions or the stability of foreign governments ▪ adverse rulings by foreign courts or tribunals; challenges to or difficulty obtaining, maintaining and complying with permits or approvals; difficulty enforcing contractual and property rights; differing legal standards for lawsuits or other proceedings; and unsettled property rights and titles in Mexico ▪ expropriation or theft of assets ▪ with respect to our non-utility international business activities, changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers, which may be driven by many of the factors listed above, among others Mexican Government Influence on Economic and Energy Matters The Mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant and increasing influence over the Mexican economy and energy sector and is proposing additional changes that, in each case, could fundamentally impact private investment in this sector. With respect to the electricity market, the Mexican legislature is currently considering proposed constitutional reform that would, among other things, make the CFE the only entity allowed to commercialize electric energy in Mexico, thereby eliminating the wholesale electricity market entirely. This reform would also limit the overall capacity and types of plants eligible to generate electricity for the CFE to commercialize, resulting in the cancelation of electricity generation permits and contracts for the sale of electricity to the CFE, including permits at all of Sempra Infrastructure’s operational power generation facilities. Recent Mexican governmental actions in the electricity market also include resolutions, orders, decrees, regulations and proposed amendments to Mexican law that could, among other things, threaten the prospects for private-party renewable energy generation in the country; limit the ability to dispatch renewable energy and receive or maintain operational permits; and increase costs of electricity for legacy renewables and cogeneration energy contract holders. With respect to midstream and downstream activities, recent governmental actions include amendments in June, October, and November of 2021 to Mexico’s General Foreign Trade Rules that establish additional requirements for obtaining authorizations for the import and export of hydrocarbons, refined products, petrochemicals, and biofuels through channels other than those authorized (LDA authorizations). The ECA Regas Facility and the Veracruz terminal have LDA authorizations that are valid through 2023, although the ability to subsequently renew these authorizations may be limited by these amended rules. We are assessing the effect of these amended rules on our operations and development of future projects, including those in the vicinity of Topolobampo, Manzanillo and Ensenada, as well as the proposed ECA LNG liquefaction projects. In addition, amendments to Mexico’s Hydrocarbons Law that give SENER and the CRE additional powers to suspend and revoke permits were published in May 2021. While the courts have enjoined enforcement of these amendments pending a final disposition in the case of several of our projects, the amendments provide that suspension of permits will be determined by SENER or the CRE when a danger to national security, energy security, or the national economy is foreseen, and also provide new grounds for the revocation of permits under certain circumstances. Additionally, in the case of existing permits, the amendments direct authorities to revoke permits that 56 fail to comply with the minimum storage requirements established by SENER or fail to comply with requirements or violate provisions established by the amended Hydrocarbons Law. Finally, as part of an industrywide audit and investigative process initiated by the CRE to enforce fuel procurement laws, federal prosecutors conducted inspections at several refined products terminals, including Sempra Infrastructure’s refined products terminal in Puebla, to confirm that the gasoline and/or diesel in storage were legally imported. During the inspection of the Puebla terminal in September 2021, a federal prosecutor took samples from all the train and storage tanks in the terminal and ordered that the facility be temporarily shut down during the pendency of the analysis of the samples and investigation, while leaving the terminal in Sempra Infrastructure’s custody. In addition, in November 2021, the CRE notified Sempra Infrastructure of the commencement of an administrative proceeding for revoking the storage permit at the Puebla terminal due to alleged breach of its terms and conditions. We cannot predict when the investigation will be completed, the outcome of the administrative proceeding or whether and/or when the facility will be able to commence commercial operations. We discuss these Mexican governmental actions further in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We cannot predict whether proposed changes like the constitutional reform to the electricity market or other similar governmental actions will ultimately be passed or otherwise become effective in their current forms, nor can we predict the nature or level of impact of this constitutional reform on non-electric segments of the energy sector. We also cannot predict whether actions to enjoin enforcement or suspend or overturn existing laws and other governmental actions will be successful. More generally, we cannot predict the impact that the political, social, and judicial landscape in Mexico will have on that country’s economy and energy sector and our business in Mexico. If any of the recent Mexican governmental actions are passed or otherwise become effective, if efforts to enjoin their enforcement or suspend or overturn them fail, or if other similar moves by the Mexican government are taken to curb private-party participation in the energy sector, including the passage of additional laws or regulations or increased investigative and enforcement activities, this could materially impact our ability to operate our facilities at existing levels or at all, may result in increased costs for Sempra Infrastructure and its customers, may adversely affect our ability to develop new projects, and may negatively impact our ability to recover the carrying values of our investments in Mexico, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. U.S. and Mexican Laws and Foreign Policy, including Trade and Related Matters Our international business activities are subject to U.S. and Mexican laws and regulations related to foreign operations or doing business internationally, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the Mexican Federal Anticorruption Law in Public Contracting (Ley Federal Anticorrupción en Contrataciones Públicas) and similar laws, and are sensitive to U.S. and Mexican foreign policy, trade policy and other geopolitical factors. The current and the last U.S. Administrations have taken different stances with respect to international trade agreements, tariffs, immigration policy and other matters of foreign policy that impact trade and foreign relations. Shifts in foreign policy could increase the adverse effects on our businesses and create uncertainty, making it difficult to predict the impact these policies could have on our businesses. Violations or alleged violations of the laws referred to above, as well as foreign policy positions that adversely affect imports and exports between the U.S., Mexican and other economies and foreign companies with whom we conduct business, could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Our businesses are subject to various legal actions challenging our property rights and permits, and our properties in Mexico could be subject to expropriation by the Mexican government. We are engaged in disputes regarding our title to the property in Mexico where our ECA Regas Facility is situated and our proposed ECA LNG projects are expected to be situated, which we discuss in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, we may have or seek to obtain long-term leases or rights-of-way from governmental agencies or other third parties to operate our energy infrastructure located on land we do not own for a specific period of time. If we are unable to defend and retain title to the properties we own or if we are unable to obtain or retain rights to construct and operate on the properties we do not own on reasonable financial and other terms, we could lose our rights to occupy and use these properties and the related facilities, which could delay or derail proposed projects, increase our development costs, and result in breaches of one or more permits or contracts related to the affected facilities that could lead to legal costs, fines or penalties. In addition, disputes regarding any of these properties could lead to difficulties finding or maintaining suitable partners, customers and project financing arrangements and could hinder or halt our ability to construct and, if completed, operate the affected facilities or proposed projects. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. 57 Sempra Infrastructure’s energy infrastructure assets may be considered by the Mexican government to be a public service or essential for the provision of a public service, in which case these assets and the related businesses could be subject to expropriation or nationalization, loss of concessions, renegotiation or annulment of existing contracts, and other similar risks. Any such occurrence could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

OVERVIEW In 2018, we set out to simplify Sempra’s business model and sharpen our focus on our mission to be North America’s premier energy infrastructure company. Our 2021 operational and financial results reflect our focus on executing this strategy: ▪ We completed the consolidation of our non-utility, energy infrastructure assets in North America under SI Partners ▪ We completed the sale of a 20% NCI in SI Partners to KKR ▪ We entered into an agreement to sell an additional 10% NCI in SI Partners to ADIA ▪ We invested $5.6 billion in capital expenditures and investments In the fourth quarter of 2021, we formed Sempra Infrastructure, a new segment that includes the operating companies of our subsidiary, SI Partners, as well as a holding company and certain services companies. Sempra Infrastructure develops, builds, operates and invests in energy infrastructure to help enable the energy transition in North American markets and globally. Our former South American businesses and certain activities associated with those businesses are presented as discontinued operations. Nominal activities that are not classified as discontinued operations have been subsumed into Parent and other. We completed the sales of these businesses in the second quarter of 2020. Our discussions below exclude discontinued operations, unless otherwise noted. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS We discuss the following in Results of Operations: ▪ Overall results of operations of Sempra; ▪ Segment results; ▪ Significant changes in revenues, costs and earnings; and ▪ Impact of foreign currency and inflation rates on our results of operations. 60 OVERALL RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OF SEMPRA Our earnings and diluted EPS were impacted by variances discussed below in “Segment Results.” SEGMENT RESULTS This section presents earnings (losses) by Sempra segment, as well as Parent and other and discontinued operations, and a related discussion of the changes in segment earnings (losses). Throughout the MD&A, our reference to earnings represents earnings attributable to common shares. Variance amounts presented are the after-tax earnings impact (based on applicable statutory tax rates), unless otherwise noted, and before NCI, where applicable. (1) Includes intercompany eliminations recorded in consolidation and certain corporate costs. SDG&E The decrease in earnings of $5 million (1%) in 2021 compared to 2020 was primarily due to: ▪ $62 million decrease due to the release of a regulatory liability in 2020 related to 2016-2018 forecasting differences that are not subject to tracking in the income tax expense memorandum account, which we discuss in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements; ▪ $10 million lower electric transmission margin, including the following favorable impacts in 2020 from the March 2020 FERC-approved TO5 settlement proceeding: ◦ $18 million to conclude a rate base matter, and ◦ $9 million from the retroactive application of the final TO5 settlement for 2019; and ▪ $6 million higher income tax expense primarily from flow-through items, net of associated regulatory revenues; offset by ▪ $44 million charge in 2020 for amounts to be refunded to customers and a fine related to the Energy Efficiency Program inquiry, which we discuss in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements; and ▪ $31 million higher CPUC base operating margin, net of operating expenses and favorable resolution of regulatory matters in 2020. 61 The increase in earnings of $57 million (7%) in 2020 compared to 2019 was primarily due to: ▪ $62 million increase due to the release of a regulatory liability in 2020 related to 2016-2018 forecasting differences that are not subject to tracking in the income tax expense memorandum account; ▪ $52 million higher electric transmission margin, including an increase in authorized ROE and the following favorable impacts in 2020 from the March 2020 FERC-approved TO5 settlement: ◦ $18 million to conclude a rate base matter, and ◦ $9 million from the retroactive application of the final TO5 settlement for 2019; ▪ $23 million higher AFUDC equity; and ▪ $16 million higher income tax benefits from flow-through items; offset by ▪ $44 million charge in 2020 for amounts to be refunded to customers and a fine related to the Energy Efficiency Program inquiry; ▪ $31 million income tax benefit in 2019 from the release of a regulatory liability established in connection with 2017 tax reform for excess deferred income tax balances that the CPUC directed to be allocated to shareholders in a January 2019 decision; ▪ $13 million higher amortization and accretion of the Wildfire Fund asset and liability, respectively; and ▪ $12 million higher net interest expense. SoCalGas Losses of $427 million in 2021 compared to earnings of $504 million in 2020 was primarily due to: ▪ $915 million increase in charges related to civil litigation and regulatory matters pertaining to the Leak comprised of $1,148 million in 2021 compared to $233 million in 2020; and ▪ $64 million decrease due to the release of a regulatory liability in 2020 related to 2016-2018 forecasting differences that are not subject to tracking in the income tax expense memorandum account; offset by ▪ $23 million higher income tax benefits from flow-through items; and ▪ $21 million higher CPUC base operating margin, net of operating expenses. The decrease in earnings of $137 million (21%) in 2020 compared to 2019 was primarily due to: ▪ $233 million from impacts in 2020 related to civil litigation and regulatory matters pertaining to the Leak; ▪ $38 million income tax benefit in 2019 from the impact of the January 2019 CPUC decision allocating certain excess deferred income tax balances to shareholders; and ▪ $12 million higher net interest expense; offset by ▪ $64 million increase due to the release of a regulatory liability in 2020 related to 2016-2018 forecasting differences that are not subject to tracking in the income tax expense memorandum account; ▪ $29 million higher CPUC base operating margin, net of operating expenses; ▪ $21 million impairment of non-utility native gas assets in 2019; ▪ $10 million higher income tax benefits from flow-through items; and ▪ $8 million in penalties in 2019 related to the SoCalGas billing practices OII. Sempra Texas Utilities The increase in earnings of $37 million (6%) in 2021 compared to 2020 was primarily due to higher equity earnings from Oncor Holdings driven by increased revenues from rate updates to reflect increases in invested capital and customer growth, offset by increased operating costs and expenses attributable to invested capital. The increase in earnings of $51 million (10%) in 2020 compared to 2019 was primarily due to higher equity earnings from Oncor Holdings driven by: ▪ increased revenues from rate updates to reflect increases in invested capital and customer growth; ▪ the impact of Oncor’s acquisition of InfraREIT in May 2019; and ▪ higher AFUDC equity; offset by ▪ unfavorable weather and increased operating costs and expenses attributable to invested capital. 62 Sempra Infrastructure Because Ecogas, our natural gas distribution utility in Mexico, uses the local currency as its functional currency, its revenues and expenses are translated into U.S. dollars at average exchange rates for the period for consolidation in Sempra’s results of operations. Prior year amounts used in the variances discussed below are as adjusted for the difference in foreign currency translation rates between years. We discuss these and other foreign currency effects below in “Impact of Foreign Currency and Inflation Rates on Results of Operations.” The increase in earnings of $102 million (18%) in 2021 compared to 2020 was primarily due to: ▪ $133 million higher equity earnings from Cameron LNG JV primarily due to the three-train liquefaction project achieving full commercial operations in August 2020; ▪ $55 million higher earnings from asset and supply optimization primarily driven by changes in natural gas prices and higher volumes; ▪ $23 million primarily due to the start of commercial operations of the Veracruz terminal in the first quarter of 2021; ▪ $20 million favorable U.S. tax impact from converting SI Partners from a corporation to a partnership in October 2021; ▪ $147 million earnings attributable to NCI in 2021 compared to $163 million in 2020, including a decrease of $87 million from the increase in our ownership interest in IEnova, offset by an increase of $98 million from the sale of a 20% NCI in SI Partners to KKR, which we discuss in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements; and ▪ $13 million selling profit on a sales-type lease relating to the commencement of a rail facility lease at the Veracruz terminal in the third quarter of 2021; offset by ▪ $76 million higher net interest expense primarily due to: ◦ $37 million in charges associated with hedge termination costs and a write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs from the early redemptions of debt in October 2021, which we discuss in Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, ◦ $19 million higher interest expense from IEnova’s issuance of senior unsecured notes in September 2020, and ◦ $8 million lower net interest income from lower intercompany balances with Parent and other; and ▪ $58 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency and inflation effects, net of foreign currency derivatives effects, comprised of a $47 million unfavorable impact in 2021 compared to an $11 million favorable impact in 2020. The increase in earnings of $333 million in 2020 compared to 2019 was primarily due to: ▪ $284 million higher equity earnings from Cameron LNG JV primarily due to the three-train liquefaction project achieving full commercial operations in August 2020; ▪ $68 million favorable impact from foreign currency and inflation effects, net of foreign currency derivatives effects, comprised of an $11 million favorable impact in 2020 compared to a $57 million unfavorable impact in 2019; ▪ $44 million higher earnings from asset and supply optimization primarily driven by changes in natural gas prices; and ▪ $33 million higher earnings primarily due to the start of commercial operations of the Sur de Texas-Tuxpan marine pipeline at IMG JV in September 2019; offset by ▪ $163 million earnings attributable to NCI in 2020 compared to $121 million in 2019; ▪ $21 million lower earnings at the Guaymas-El Oro segment of the Sonora pipeline primarily from force majeure payments that ended in August 2019; and ▪ $13 million lower earnings at TdM primarily due to scheduled major maintenance in the fourth quarter of 2020. Sempra Renewables As we discuss in Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Sempra Renewables sold its remaining wind assets and investments in April 2019 upon which date the segment ceased to exist. Earnings of $59 million in 2019 included a $45 million gain on such sale. Parent and Other The decrease in losses of $127 million (23%) in 2021 compared to 2020 was primarily due to: ▪ $50 million equity earnings in 2021 compared to $100 million equity losses in 2020 related to our investment in RBS Sempra Commodities to settle pending VAT matters and related legal costs, which we discuss in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements; ▪ $105 million lower preferred dividends as a result of $124 million lower dividends due to the mandatory conversion of all series A preferred stock and series B preferred stock in January 2021 and July 2021, respectively, offset by $19 million higher dividends due to the issuance of series C preferred stock in June 2020; ▪ $59 million lower net interest expense; 63 ▪ $26 million gain on the sale of PXiSE in December 2021, which we discuss in Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements; and ▪ $14 million lower operating costs retained at Parent and other; offset by ▪ $92 million in charges in 2021 associated with make-whole premiums and a write-off of unamortized discount and debt issuance costs from the early redemptions of debt in December 2021, which we discuss in Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements; ▪ $72 million net income tax expense related to the utilization of a deferred income tax asset upon completing the sale of a 20% NCI in SI Partners to KKR in October 2021; ▪ $9 million income tax expense in 2021 compared to $26 million income tax benefit in 2020 due to changes in a valuation allowance against certain tax credit carryforwards; and ▪ $31 million income tax benefit in 2020 for repatriation of foreign earnings due to extension of federal tax law. The increase in losses of $48 million (9%) in 2020 compared to 2019 was primarily due to: ▪ $100 million equity losses in 2020 related to our investment in RBS Sempra Commodities to settle pending VAT matters and related legal costs; ▪ $26 million higher preferred dividends due to the issuance of series C preferred stock in June 2020; ▪ $24 million consolidated California state income tax expense in 2020 associated with income from our investments in Sempra Infrastructure entities; ▪ $10 million income tax benefit in 2019 from a reduction in a valuation allowance against certain NOL carryforwards as a result of our decision to sell our South American businesses; and ▪ $9 million lower net investment gains on dedicated assets in support of our employee nonqualified benefit plan and deferred compensation obligations, net of deferred compensation expenses; offset by ▪ $36 million lower net interest expense; ▪ $26 million income tax benefit in 2020 compared to $7 million income tax expense in 2019 from changes to a valuation allowance against certain tax credit carryforwards; ▪ $11 million income tax benefit in 2020 compared to $2 million income tax expense in 2019 related to share-based compensation; and ▪ $8 million decrease in losses from foreign currency derivatives used to hedge exposure to fluctuations in the Peruvian sol and Chilean peso related to the sale of our South American businesses. Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations that were previously in our Sempra South American Utilities segment include our former 100% interest in Chilquinta Energía in Chile, our former 83.6% interest in Luz del Sur in Peru and our former interests in two energy-services companies, Tecnored and Tecsur, which provide electric construction and infrastructure services to Chilquinta Energía and Luz del Sur, respectively, as well as third parties. Discontinued operations also include activities, mainly income taxes related to the South American businesses, that were previously included in the holding company of the South American businesses at Parent and other. As we discuss in Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we completed the sales of our South American businesses in the second quarter of 2020. On April 24, 2020, we sold our equity interests in our Peruvian businesses, including our 83.6% interest in Luz del Sur and its interest in Tecsur, for cash proceeds of $3,549 million, net of transaction costs and as adjusted for post-closing adjustments, and on June 24, 2020, we sold our equity interests in our Chilean businesses, including our 100% interest in Chilquinta Energía and Tecnored and our 50% interest in Eletrans, for cash proceeds of $2,216 million, net of transaction costs and as adjusted for post-closing adjustments. Earnings from discontinued operations of $1,840 million in 2020 included: ▪ $1,499 million gain on the sale of our Peruvian businesses; ▪ $248 million gain on the sale of our Chilean businesses; ▪ $98 million operational earnings prior to the sale of our Peruvian and Chilean businesses; and ▪ $7 million income tax benefit related to changes in outside basis differences from earnings and foreign currency effects. The increase in earnings from our discontinued operations of $1,512 million in 2020 compared to 2019 was primarily due to: ▪ $1,499 million gain on the sale of our Peruvian businesses; ▪ $248 million gain on the sale of our Chilean businesses; and 64 ▪ $7 million income tax benefit in 2020 compared to $51 million income tax expense in 2019 related to changes in outside basis differences from earnings and foreign currency effects since the January 25, 2019 approval of our plan to sell our South American businesses; offset by ▪ $201 million lower operational earnings mainly as a result of the sales of our Peruvian and Chilean businesses; and ▪ $89 million income tax benefit in 2019 related to outside basis differences existing as of January 25, 2019. SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN REVENUES, COSTS AND EARNINGS This section contains a discussion of the differences between periods in the specific line items of the Consolidated Statements of Operations for Sempra, SDG&E and SoCalGas. Utilities Revenues and Cost of Sales Our utilities revenues include natural gas revenues at SoCalGas and SDG&E and Sempra Infrastructure’s Ecogas and electric revenues at SDG&E. Intercompany revenues included in the separate revenues of each utility are eliminated in Sempra’s Consolidated Statements of Operations. SoCalGas and SDG&E currently operate under a regulatory framework that permits: ▪ The cost of natural gas purchased for core customers (primarily residential and small commercial and industrial customers) to be passed through to customers in rates substantially as incurred. SoCalGas’ GCIM provides SoCalGas the opportunity to share in the savings and/or costs from buying natural gas for its core customers at prices below or above monthly market-based benchmarks. This mechanism permits full recovery of costs incurred when average purchase costs are within a price range around the benchmark price. Any higher costs incurred or savings realized outside this range are shared between the core customers and SoCalGas. ▪ SDG&E to recover the actual cost incurred to generate or procure electricity based on annual estimates of the cost of electricity supplied to customers. The differences in cost between estimates and actual are recovered or refunded in subsequent periods through rates. ▪ SoCalGas and SDG&E to recover certain program expenditures and other costs authorized by the CPUC, or “refundable programs.” Because changes in SoCalGas’ and SDG&E’s cost of natural gas and/or electricity are recovered in rates, changes in these costs are offset in the changes in revenues and therefore do not impact earnings. In addition to the changes in cost or market prices, natural gas or electric revenues recorded during a period are impacted by the difference between customer billings and recorded or CPUC-authorized amounts. These differences are required to be balanced over time, resulting in over- and undercollected regulatory balancing accounts. We discuss balancing accounts and their effects further in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this report. 65 The table below summarizes utilities revenues and cost of sales. (1) Excludes depreciation and amortization, which are presented separately on the Sempra, SDG&E and SoCalGas Consolidated Statements of Operations. Natural Gas Revenues and Cost of Natural Gas The table below summarizes the average cost of natural gas sold by Sempra California and included in cost of natural gas. The average cost of natural gas sold at each utility is impacted by market prices, as well as transportation, tariff and other charges. In 2021 compared to 2020, our natural gas revenues increased by $922 million (17%) to $6.3 billion primarily due to: ▪ $767 million increase at SoCalGas, which included: ◦ $586 million increase in cost of natural gas sold, which we discuss below, ◦ $129 million higher CPUC-authorized revenues, ◦ $81 million higher revenues from incremental and balanced capital projects, and ◦ $53 million higher recovery of costs associated with refundable programs, which revenues are offset in O&M, offset by ◦ $84 m illion decrease due to the release of a regulatory liability in 2020 related to 2016-2018 forecasting differences that are not subject to tracking in the income tax expense memorandum account, and ◦ $15 million lower non-service component of net periodic benefit cost in 2021, which fully offsets in Other Income (Expense), Net; ▪ $144 million increase at SDG&E, which included: ◦ $80 million increase in cost of natural gas sold, which we discuss below, 66 ◦ $24 million higher CPUC-authorized revenues, ◦ $20 million higher revenues primarily associated with the Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan, and ◦ $15 million higher recovery of costs associated with refundable programs, which revenues are offset in O&M, offset by ◦ $6 million decrease due to the release of a regulatory liability in 2020 related to 2016-2018 forecasting differences that are not subject to tracking in the income tax expense memorandum account; and ▪ $23 million increase at Sempra Infrastructure primarily due to a higher residential customer rate and cost of natural gas sold. In 2020 compared to 2019, our natural gas revenues increased by $226 million (4%) to $5.4 billion primarily due to: ▪ $223 million increase at SoCalGas, which included: ◦ $198 million higher CPUC-authorized revenues, ◦ $144 million higher recovery of costs associated with refundable programs, which revenues are offset in O&M, and ◦ $84 million increase due to the release of a regulatory liability in 2020 related to 2016-2018 forecasting differences that are not subject to tracking in the income tax expense memorandum account, offset by ◦ $194 million decrease in cost of natural gas sold, which we discuss below, and ◦ $19 million lower non-service component of net periodic benefit cost in 2020, which fully offsets in Other Income (Expense), Net; and ▪ $36 million increase at SDG&E, which included: ◦ $23 million higher recovery of costs associated with refundable programs, which revenues are offset in O&M, ◦ $15 million higher CPUC-authorized revenues, and ◦ $6 million increase due to the release of a regulatory liability in 2020 related to 2016-2018 forecasting differences that are not subject to tracking in the income tax expense memorandum account, offset by ◦ $14 million decrease in cost of natural gas sold, which we discuss below; offset by ▪ $15 million decrease at Sempra Infrastructure primarily due to foreign currency effects and a regulatory rate adjustment. Our cost of natural gas increased by $672 million to $1.6 billion in 2021 compared to 2020 primarily due to: ▪ $586 million increase at SoCalGas primarily from higher average natural gas prices; and ▪ $80 million increase at SDG&E primarily from higher average natural gas prices. Our cost of natural gas decreased by $214 million (19%) to $925 million in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily due to: ▪ $194 million decrease at SoCalGas, including $143 million from lower average natural gas prices and $51 million from lower volumes driven primarily by weather; and ▪ $14 million decrease at SDG&E, including $7 million from lower average natural gas prices and $7 million from lower volumes driven primarily by weather. Electric Revenues and Cost of Electric Fuel and Purchased Power In 2021 compared to 2020, our electric revenues, substantially all of which are at SDG&E, increased by $44 million (1%) to $4.7 billion primarily due to: ▪ $87 million higher recovery of costs associated with refundable programs, which revenues are offset in O&M; ▪ $51 million charge in 2020 for amounts to be refunded to customers related to the Energy Efficiency Program inquiry; ▪ $49 million higher CPUC-authorized revenues; ▪ $41 million higher revenues associated with SDG&E’s wildfire mitigation plan; ▪ $14 million higher revenues associated with a new customer information system; ▪ $13 million higher revenues associated with lower income tax benefits from flow-through items; and ▪ $6 million higher revenues from transmission operations, including the following favorable impacts in 2020 from the March 2020 FERC-approved TO5 settlement proceeding: ◦ $26 million to settle a rate base matter, and ◦ $12 million from the retroactive application of the final TO5 settlement for 2019; offset by ▪ $122 million lower cost of electric fuel and purchased power, which we discuss below; ▪ $77 million decrease due to the release of a regulatory liability in 2020 related to 2016-2018 forecasting differences that are not subject to tracking in the income tax expense memorandum account; and ▪ $22 million lower revenues due to favorable resolution of regulatory matters in 2020. 67 In 2020 compared to 2019, our electric revenues, substantially all of which are at SDG&E, increased by $351 million (8%) to $4.6 billion primarily due to: ▪ $242 million higher recovery of costs associated with refundable programs, which revenues are offset in O&M; ▪ $112 million higher revenues from transmission operations, including an increase in authorized ROE and the following favorable impacts in 2020 from the March 2020 FERC-approved TO5 settlement proceeding: ◦ $26 million to settle a rate base matter, and ◦ $12 million from the retroactive application of the final TO5 settlement for 2019; ▪ $77 million increase due to the release of a regulatory liability in 2020 related to 2016-2018 forecasting differences that are not subject to tracking in the income tax expense memorandum account; ▪ $35 million higher CPUC-authorized revenues; and ▪ $19 million higher revenues associated with SDG&E’s wildfire mitigation plan; offset by ▪ $55 million lower cost of electric fuel and purchased power, which we discuss below; and ▪ $51 million charge in 2020 for amounts to be refunded to customers related to the Energy Efficiency Program inquiry. Our utility cost of electric fuel and purchased power includes utility-owned generation and power purchased from third parties, net of sales to the California ISO. The cost of electric fuel and purchased power decreased by $177 million (15%) to $1.0 billion in 2021 compared to 2020 primarily due to: ▪ $122 million at SDG&E primarily from higher sales to the California ISO due to higher market prices and lower customer demand; and ▪ $55 million higher intercompany eliminations associated with sales between SDG&E and Sempra Infrastructure due to the acquisition of ESJ in March 2021. Our utility cost of electric fuel and purchased power, substantially all of which is at SDG&E, decreased by $1 million remaining at $1.2 billion in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily due to: ▪ $55 million lower recoverable cost of electric fuel and purchased power primarily due to a decrease in residential demand mainly from an increase in rooftop solar adoption; offset by ▪ $52 million associated with Otay Mesa VIE, which we deconsolidated in August 2019. Energy-Related Businesses: Revenues and Cost of Sales The table below shows revenues and cost of sales for our energy-related businesses. (1) Includes eliminations of intercompany activity. (2) Excludes depreciation and amortization, which are presented separately on Sempra’s Consolidated Statements of Operations. In 2021 compared to 2020 revenues from our energy-related businesses, substantially all of which are at Sempra Infrastructure, increased by $521 million (39%) to $1.9 billion primarily due to: ▪ $355 million increase in revenues from asset and supply optimization, contracts to sell natural gas to third parties and LNG offtake, including: ◦ $309 million higher natural gas sales primarily from higher natural gas prices and volumes offset by higher unrealized losses on commodity derivatives, and ◦ $46 million higher diversion revenues due to higher natural gas prices; 68 ▪ $74 million higher revenues from the Veracruz and Mexico City terminals placed in service in March and July of 2021, respectively, including a $18 million selling profit on a sales-type lease relating to the commencement of a rail facility lease at the Veracruz terminal in the third quarter of 2021; ▪ $ 63 million higher revenues from TdM mainly due to higher power prices and volumes ; and ▪ $ 41 million increase from the renewables business primarily due to the acquisition of ESJ in March 2021 and renewable assets placed in service in December 2020 and March 2021 . In 2020 compared to 2019, revenues from our energy-related businesses decreased by $36 million (3%) to $1.3 billion primarily due to: ▪ $25 million lower revenues from TdM mainly due to lower volumes, offset by higher power prices; ▪ $21 million lower transportation revenues primarily from force majeure payments that ended in August 2019 with respect to the Guaymas-El Oro segment of the Sonora pipeline; and ▪ $18 million lower revenues from the expiration of capacity release contracts in the fourth quarter of 2019; offset by ▪ $23 million increase in revenues from asset and supply optimization, contracts to sell natural gas to third parties and LNG offtake, including: ◦ $44 million lower unrealized losses on commodity derivatives offset by lower natural gas sales primarily from lower natural gas prices and volumes, offset by ◦ $21 million lower diversion revenues and turnback revenues due to lower natural gas prices and volumes. The cost of sales for our energy-related businesses, substantially all of which are at Sempra Infrastructure, increased by $335 million to $611 million in 2021 compared to 2020. The increase is primarily from higher natural gas purchases related to asset and supply optimization and higher natural gas prices and volumes at TdM. The cost of sales for our energy-related businesses, substantially all of which are at Sempra Infrastructure, decreased by $68 million (20%) to $276 million in 2020 compared to 2019. The decrease is primarily due to lower natural gas prices and volumes related to asset and supply optimization. Operation and Maintenance In the table below, we provide O&M by segment. (1) Excludes impairment losses of $2, $1, and $6 in 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. (2) Includes eliminations of intercompany activity. Our O&M increased by $398 million (10%) to $4.3 billion in 2021 compared to 2020 primarily due to: ▪ $151 million increase at SoCalGas, primarily due to: ◦ $98 million higher non-refundable operating costs, and ◦ $53 million higher expenses associated with refundable programs, which costs incurred are recovered in revenue; ▪ $131 million increase at SDG&E, primarily due to: ◦ $102 million higher expenses associated with refundable programs, which costs incurred are recovered in revenue, and ◦ $29 million higher non-refundable operating costs; and ▪ $122 million increase at Sempra Infrastructure primarily due to: ◦ $46 million higher expenses associated with the growth in the business and certain non-capitalized expenses at ECA LNG Phase 1 in 2021, which reached a final investment decision in November 2020, ◦ $24 million from the renewables business, including the acquisition of ESJ in March 2021, 69 ◦ $17 million from the start of commercial operations of the Veracruz and Mexico City terminals in March and July of 2021, respectively, and ◦ $7 million from expected credit losses on a guarantee. Our O&M increased by $474 million (14%) to $3.9 billion in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily due to: ▪ $279 million increase at SDG&E, primarily due to: ◦ $265 million higher expenses associated with refundable programs, which costs incurred are recovered in revenue, and ◦ $18 million higher amortization in 2020 of the Wildfire Fund asset and accretion of the Wildfire Fund obligation; and ▪ $249 million increase at SoCalGas, primarily due to: ◦ $144 million higher expenses associated with refundable programs, which costs incurred are recovered in revenue, and ◦ $105 million higher non-refundable operating costs, including labor, purchased materials and services, and administrative and support costs; offset by ▪ $53 million decrease at Parent and other primarily from lower deferred compensation expense and retained operating costs; and ▪ $18 million decrease at Sempra Renewables primarily due to lower general and administrative and other costs due to the wind-down of the business in 2019. Aliso Canyon Litigation and Regulatory Matters In 2021, SoCalGas recorded charges of $1,593 million compared to $307 million in 2020 related to civil litigation and regulatory matters pertaining to the Leak. We describe these charges in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Impairment Losses In 2019, SoCalGas recognized a $29 million impairment loss related to non-utility native gas assets. Also in 2019, SDG&E and SoCalGas recognized impairment losses of $6 million and $8 million, respectively, for certain disallowed capital costs in the 2019 GRC FD. Gain (Loss) on Sale of Assets In 2021, Parent and Other recognized a $36 million gain on the sale of PXiSE, which we discuss in Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In 2019, Sempra Renewables recognized a $61 million gain on the sale of its remaining wind assets and investments. Other Income (Expense), Net As part of our central risk management function, we may enter into foreign currency derivatives to hedge SI Partners’ exposure to movements in the Mexican peso from its controlling interest in IEnova. The gains/losses associated with these derivatives are included in Other Income (Expense), Net, as described below, and partially mitigate the transactional effects of foreign currency and inflation included in Income Tax (Expense) Benefit for SI Partners’ consolidated entities and in Equity Earnings for SI Partners’ equity method investments. We also utilized foreign currency derivatives in 2020 and 2019 to hedge exposure to fluctuations in the Peruvian sol and Chilean peso related to the sales of our operations in Peru and Chile, respectively. We discuss policies governing our risk management below in “Part II – Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Other income, net, was $58 million in 2021 compared to other expense, net, of $48 million in 2020. The change was primarily due to: ▪ $46 million lower net losses in 2021 from impacts associated with interest rate and foreign exchange instruments and foreign currency transactions primarily due to: ◦ $36 million lower losses on foreign currency derivatives and cross-currency swaps as a result of fluctuation of the Mexican peso, and ◦ $19 million lower foreign currency losses on a Mexican peso-denominated loan to IMG JV, which is offset in Equity Earnings, offset by ◦ $11 million lower net gains in 2021 on other foreign currency transactional effects; ▪ $35 million lower non-service component of net periodic benefit cost in 2021; ▪ $9 million higher investment gains in 2021 on dedicated assets in support of our executive retirement and deferred compensation plans; ▪ $7 million higher AFUDC equity at SoCalGas ; ▪ $6 million fine at SDG&E in 2020 related to the Energy Efficiency Program inquiry ; and 70 ▪ $5 million reversal of penalties in 2021 related to the SoCalGas billing practices OII; offset by ▪ $ 8 million total decrease in regulatory interest at SDG&E and SoCalGas due to the release of a regulatory liability in 2020 related to 2016-2018 forecasting differences that are not subject to tracking in the income tax expense memorandum account . Other expense, net, was $48 million in 2020 compared to other income, net, of $77 million in 2019. The change was primarily due to: ▪ $92 million net losses in 2020 from interest rate and foreign exchange instruments and foreign currency transactions compared to net gains of $55 million in 2019 primarily due to: ◦ $53 million losses in 2020 on foreign currency derivatives compared to $40 million gains in 2019 as a result of fluctuation of the Mexican peso, and ◦ $42 million losses in 2020 compared to $30 million gains in 2019 on a Mexican peso-denominated loan to IMG JV, which is offset in Equity Earnings; offset by ◦ $17 million gains in 2020 compared to $9 million losses in 2019 on other foreign currency transactional effects; ▪ $20 million lower investment gains in 2020 on dedicated assets in support of our executive retirement and deferred compensation plans; and ▪ $6 million fine at SDG&E in 2020 related to the Energy Efficiency Program inquiry; offset by ▪ $34 million higher AFUDC equity, including $23 million at SDG&E and $7 million at SoCalGas; ▪ $30 million lower non-service component of net periodic benefit cost in 2020; ▪ $8 million total increase in regulatory interest at SDG&E and SoCalGas due to the release of a regulatory liability in 2020 related to 2016-2018 forecasting differences that are not subject to tracking in the income tax expense memorandum account; and ▪ $8 million in penalties in 2019 related to the SoCalGas billing practices OII. We provide further details of the components of other (expense) income, net, in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest Expense Interest expense increased by $117 million (11%) to $1.2 billion in 2021 compared to 2020 primarily due to: ▪ $88 million increase at Parent and other primarily due to $126 million in charges associated with make-whole premiums and a write-off of unamortized discount and debt issuance costs from the early redemptions of debt securities in December 2021, offset by lower long-term debt balances due to scheduled maturities in 2021; and ▪ $31 million increase at Sempra Infrastructure primarily due to $54 million in charges associated with hedge termination costs and a write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs from the early redemptions of debt in October 2021, offset by lower intercompany debt with Parent and other. 71 Income Taxes The table below shows the income tax expense (benefit) and ETRs for Sempra, SDG&E and SoCalGas. (1) We discuss how we recognize equity earnings in Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Sempra Sempra’s income tax expense decreased in 2021 compared to 2020 primarily due to: ▪ $445 million income tax benefit in 2021 compared to $74 million income tax benefit in 2020 associated with charges related to civil litigation and regulatory matters pertaining to the Leak; and ▪ $22 million income tax benefit in 2021 from the remeasurement of certain deferred income taxes; offset by ▪ $72 million net income tax expense related to the utilization of a deferred income tax asset upon completing the sale of a 20% NCI in SI Partners to KKR in October 2021; ▪ $4 million income tax expense in 2021 compared to $59 million income tax benefit in 2020 from foreign currency and inflation effects and associated derivatives; ▪ $9 million income tax expense in 2021 compared to $26 million income tax benefit in 2020 due to changes in valuation allowances against certain tax credit carryforwards; ▪ $31 million income tax benefit in 2020 for repatriation of foreign earnings due to extension of federal tax law; ▪ $10 million lower income tax benefit related to share-based compensation; and ▪ lower income tax benefits from flow-through items. Sempra’s income tax expense decreased in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily due to: ▪ $59 million income tax benefit in 2020 compared to $77 million income tax expense in 2019 from foreign currency and inflation effects and associated derivatives; ▪ $26 million income tax benefit in 2020 compared to $7 million income tax expense in 2019 from changes to a valuation allowance against certain tax credit carryforwards; and ▪ $19 million income tax benefit in 2020 compared to $4 million income tax expense in 2019 related to share-based compensation; offset by ▪ $69 million total income tax benefits in 2019 from the release of regulatory liabilities at SDG&E and SoCalGas established in connection with 2017 tax reform for excess deferred income tax balances that the CPUC directed be allocated to shareholders in a January 2019 decision; and ▪ $10 million income tax benefit in 2019 from a reduction in a valuation allowance against certain NOL carryforwards as a result of our decision to sell our South American businesses. We report as part of our pretax results the income or loss attributable to NCI. However, we do not record income taxes for a portion of this income or loss, as some of our entities with NCI are currently treated as partnerships for income tax purposes, and 72 thus we are only liable for income taxes on the portion of the earnings that are allocated to us. Our pretax income, however, includes 100% of these entities. If our entities with NCI grow, and if we continue to invest in such entities, the impact on our ETR may become more significant. We discuss the impact of foreign currency exchange rates and inflation on income taxes below in “Impact of Foreign Currency and Inflation Rates on Results of Operations.” See Notes 1 and 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details about our accounting for income taxes and items subject to flow-through treatment. SDG&E SDG&E’s income tax expense increased in 2021 compared to 2020 primarily due to lower income tax benefits in 2021 from flow-through items. SDG&E’s income tax expense increased in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily due to: ▪ higher pretax income; and ▪ $31 million income tax benefit in 2019 from the release of a regulatory liability established in connection with 2017 tax reform for excess deferred income tax balances that the CPUC directed be allocated to shareholders in a January 2019 decision; offset by ▪ higher income tax benefits in 2020 from flow-through items. SoCalGas SoCalGas’ income tax benefit in 2021 compared to an income tax expense in 2020 was primarily due to: ▪ $445 million income tax benefit in 2021 compared to $74 million income tax benefit in 2020 associated with charges related to civil litigation and regulatory matters pertaining to the Leak; and ▪ higher income tax benefits in 2021 from flow-through items. SoCalGas’ income tax expense decreased in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily due to: ▪ lower pretax income; and ▪ higher income tax benefits in 2020 from flow-through items; offset by ▪ $38 million income tax benefit in 2019 from the release of a regulatory liability established in connection with 2017 tax reform for excess deferred income tax balances that the CPUC directed be allocated to shareholders in a January 2019 decision. Equity Earnings Equity earnings increased by $328 million (32%) to $1.3 billion in 2021 compared to 2020 primarily due to: ▪ $50 million equity earnings in 2021 compared to $100 million equity losses in 2020 related to our investment in RBS Sempra Commodities to settle pending VAT matters and related legal costs; and ▪ $136 million higher equity earnings at Sempra Infrastructure, which included: ◦ $168 million higher equity earnings at Cameron LNG JV primarily due to the three-train liquefaction project achieving full commercial operations in August 2020, offset by ◦ $20 million lower equity earnings at IMG JV, primarily due to foreign currency effects, including $19 million lower foreign currency gains on IMG JV’s Mexican peso-denominated loans from its JV owners, which is fully offset in Other Income (Expense), Net, and ◦ $9 million lower equity earnings at TAG JV primarily due to higher income tax expense in 2021; and ▪ $40 million higher equity earnings at Oncor Holdings primarily due to increased revenues from rate updates to reflect increases in invested capital and customer growth, offset by increased operating costs and expenses attributable to invested capital. Equity earnings increased by $435 million to $1.0 billion in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily due to: ▪ $487 million higher equity earnings at Sempra Infrastructure, which included: ◦ $367 million higher equity earnings from Cameron LNG JV primarily due to the three-train liquefaction project achieving full commercial operations in August 2020, ◦ $94 million higher equity earnings at IMG JV, primarily due to higher revenues from the start of commercial operations of the Sur de Texas-Tuxpan marine pipeline and foreign currency effects, including $42 million foreign currency gains in 2020 compared to $30 million foreign currency losses in 2019 on IMG JV’s Mexican peso-denominated loans from its JV owners, which is fully offset in Other (Expense) Income, Net, offset by lower AFUDC equity, and ◦ $23 million higher equity earnings at TAG JV primarily due to lower income tax expense in 2020; and 73 ▪ $51 million higher equity earnings at Oncor Holdings primarily due to higher revenues from rate updates and customer growth, the acquisition of InfraREIT in May 2019 and higher AFUDC equity, offset by unfavorable weather and increased operating costs; offset by ▪ $100 million equity losses in 2020 related to our investment in RBS Sempra Commodities to settle pending VAT matters and related legal costs. Earnings Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests Earnings attributable to NCI were $145 million for 2021 compared to $172 million for 2020. The decrease of $27 million (16%) was primarily due to: ▪ $87 million decrease from the increase in our ownership interest in IEnova as a result of the exchange offer and subsequent cash tender offer to acquire the publicly owned shares of IEnova; and ▪ $28 million decrease mainly from foreign currency and inflation effects and associated derivatives; offset by ▪ $98 million increase due to the increase in NCI as a result of the sale of a 20% NCI in SI Partners to KKR in October 2021. Earnings attributable to NCI were $172 million for 2020 compared to $164 million for 2019. The net change of $8 million (5%) was primarily due to an increase at Sempra Infrastructure mainly from foreign currency effects as a result of fluctuation of the Mexico peso, offset by a decrease due to the sales of our Peruvian businesses in April 2020 and Chilean businesses in June 2020. Preferred Dividends Preferred dividends decreased by $105 million to $63 million in 2021 compared to 2020 primarily due to the conversion of all series A preferred stock and series B preferred stock in January 2021 and July 2021, respectively, offset by the issuance of series C preferred stock in June 2020. Preferred dividends increased by $26 million (18%) to $168 million in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily due to dividends associated with our series C preferred stock, which was issued in June 2020. IMPACT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY AND INFLATION RATES ON RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Because our natural gas distribution utility in Mexico, Ecogas, uses its local currency as its functional currency, revenues and expenses are translated into U.S. dollars at average exchange rates for the period for consolidation in Sempra’s results of operations. Prior to the sales of our South American businesses in 2020, our operations in South America used their local currency as their functional currency. Foreign Currency Translation Any difference in average exchange rates used for the translation of income statement activity from year to year can cause a variance in Sempra’s comparative results of operations. Changes in foreign currency translation rates between years were negligible in 2021 compared to 2020 and resulted in $9 million lower earnings in 2020 compared to 2019. Transactional Impacts Although the financial statements of most of our Mexican subsidiaries and JVs have the U.S. dollar as the functional currency, some transactions may be denominated in the local currency; such transactions are remeasured into U.S. dollars. This remeasurement creates transactional gains and losses that are included in Other Income (Expense), Net, for our consolidated subsidiaries and in Equity Earnings for our JVs. We utilize cross-currency swaps that exchange our Mexican peso-denominated principal and interest payments into the U.S. dollar and swap Mexican fixed interest rates for U.S. fixed interest rates. The impacts of these cross-currency swaps are offset in OCI and are reclassified from AOCI into earnings through Other Income (Expense), Net and Interest Expense as settlements occur. Certain of our Mexican pipelines (namely Los Ramones I at IEnova Pipelines and Los Ramones Norte at TAG JV) generate revenue based on tariffs that are set by government agencies in Mexico, with contracts denominated in Mexican pesos that are indexed to the U.S. dollar, adjusted annually for inflation and fluctuation in the exchange rate. The resultant gains and losses from remeasuring the local currency amounts into U.S. dollars and the offsetting settlement of foreign currency forwards and swaps related to these contracts are included in Revenues: Energy-Related Businesses or Equity Earnings. Income statement activities at our foreign operations and their JVs are also impacted by transactional gains and losses, a summary of which is shown in the table below: 74 Foreign Currency Exchange Rate and Inflation Impacts on Income Taxes and Related Hedging Activity Our Mexican subsidiaries have U.S. dollar-denominated cash balances, receivables, payables and debt (monetary assets and liabilities) that are affected by Mexican currency exchange rate movements for Mexican income tax purposes. They also have deferred income tax assets and liabilities, which are significant, denominated in the Mexican peso that must be translated to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. In addition, monetary assets and liabilities and certain nonmonetary assets and liabilities are adjusted for Mexican inflation for Mexican income tax purposes. As a result, fluctuations in both the currency exchange rate for the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar and Mexican inflation may expose us to fluctuations in Income Tax Expense, Other Income (Expense), Net and Equity Earnings. We may use foreign currency derivatives as a means to help manage exposure to the currency exchange rate on our monetary assets and liabilities, and this derivative activity impacts Other Income (Expense), Net. However, we generally do not hedge our deferred income tax assets and liabilities, which makes us susceptible to volatility in income tax expense caused by exchange rate fluctuations and inflation. We also utilized foreign currency derivatives in 2020 and 2019 to hedge exposure to fluctuations in the Peruvian sol and Chilean peso related to the sales of our operations in Peru and Chile in discontinued operations. CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY OVERVIEW Sempra Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic Our businesses that invest in, develop and operate energy infrastructure and provide electric and gas services to customers have been identified as critical or essential services in the U.S. and Mexico and have continued to operate throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. As our businesses continue to operate, our priority is the safety of our employees, customers, partners and the communities we serve. We and other companies, including our partners, are taking steps to try to protect the health and well-being of our employees and other stakeholders. We continue to work closely with local, state and federal authorities in an effort to provide essential services with minimum interruption to customers and in accordance with applicable orders, including potential vaccination mandates. For a further discussion of risks and uncertainties related to the COVID-19 pandemic, see “Part I – Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Liquidity We expect to meet our cash requirements through cash flows from operations, unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, borrowings under our credit facilities, issuances of debt, distributions from our equity method investments, project financing and funding from minority interest owners. We believe that these cash flow sources, combined with available funds, will be adequate to fund our operations in both the short-term and long-term, including to: 75 ▪ finance capital expenditures ▪ repay long-term debt ▪ fund dividends ▪ meet liquidity requirements ▪ fund capital contribution requirements ▪ fund expenditures related to the natural gas leak at SoCalGas’ Aliso Canyon natural gas storage facility ▪ repurchase shares of our common stock ▪ fund new business or asset acquisitions or start-ups Sempra, SDG&E and SoCalGas currently have reasonable access to the money markets and capital markets and are not currently constrained in their ability to borrow money at reasonable rates from commercial banks, under existing revolving credit facilities or through public offerings registered with the SEC. However, our ability to access the money markets and capital markets or obtain credit from commercial banks outside of our committed revolving credit facilities could become materially constrained if changing economic conditions and disruptions to the money markets and capital markets worsen. In addition, our financing activities and actions by credit rating agencies, as well as many other factors, could negatively affect the availability and cost of both short-term and long-term financing. Also, cash flows from operations may be impacted by the timing of commencement and completion, and potentially cost overruns, of large projects and other material events, such as significant outflows resulting from the agreements expected to resolve certain material litigation related to the Leak. If cash flows from operations were to be significantly reduced or we were unable to borrow under acceptable terms, we would likely first reduce or postpone discretionary capital expenditures (not related to safety) and investments in new businesses. We monitor our ability to finance the needs of our operating, investing and financing activities in a manner consistent with our goal to maintain our investment-grade credit ratings. Postretirement Benefits Sempra, SDG&E and SoCalGas have significant investments in several trusts to provide for future payments of pensions and other postretirement benefits. The trusts’ ability to make ongoing required benefit payments have not been materially adversely affected by changes in asset values, which are dependent on market fluctuations, contributions and withdrawals. However, changes in asset values or other factors in future periods, such as changes to discount rates, assumed rates of return, mortality tables and regulations, may impact funding requirements for pension and other postretirement benefits plans. Additionally, contributions to our plans are based on our funding policy, which generally limits payments from exceeding plan assets of 110% of the projected benefit obligation, which are subject to maximum income tax deduction limitations. Sempra, SDG&E and SoCalGas expect to contribute $236 million, $53 million and $153 million, respectively, to pension and other postretirement benefit plans in 2022 and $2.2 billion, $393 million and $1.6 billion, respectively, in the nine years thereafter. At SDG&E and SoCalGas, funding requirements are generally recoverable in rates. We discuss our employee benefit plans and our expected contributions to those plans in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Available Funds Our committed lines of credit provide liquidity and support commercial paper. Sempra, SDG&E and SoCalGas each have five-year credit agreements expiring in 2024, SI Partners has a three-year credit agreement expiring in 2024 and IEnova has committed lines of credit that expire in 2023 and 2024. In addition, IEnova and ECA LNG Phase 1 have uncommitted revolving credit facilities that expire in 2022 and 2023. (1) Amounts at Sempra include $205 held in non-U.S. jurisdictions. We discuss repatriation in Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . (2) Available unused credit is the total available on the committed and uncommitted lines of credit that we discuss in Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Because our commercial paper programs are supported by these lines, we reflect the amount of commercial paper outstanding as a reduction to the available unused credit. 76 Short-Term Borrowings We use short-term debt primarily to meet liquidity requirements, fund shareholder dividends, and temporarily finance capital expenditures, acquisitions or start-ups. SDG&E and SoCalGas use short-term debt primarily to meet working capital needs. Revolving lines of credit, commercial paper and a term loan at SDG&E were our primary sources of short-term debt funding in 2021. We discuss our short-term debt activities in Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and below in “Sources and Uses of Cash.” The following table shows selected statistics for our commercial paper borrowings. Long-Term Debt Activities Major issuances of and payments on long-term debt in 2021 included the following: In December 2021, Sempra redeemed, at respective make-whole redemption prices, an aggregate principal amount of $2.35 billion of senior unsecured notes prior to scheduled maturities in 2022 through 2025. Upon the early redemptions, we recognized $126 million ($92 million after tax) in charges associated with the make-whole premiums and a write-off of unamortized discount and debt issuance costs. In October 2021, Sempra Infrastructure used proceeds from borrowings against IEnova’s committed and uncommitted lines of credit to fully repay $550 million of outstanding principal plus accrued and unpaid interest on the ESJ and Ventika loans prior to their scheduled maturity dates through 2033 and recognized $54 million ($30 million after tax and NCI) in charges associated with hedge termination costs and a write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs. 77 As we discuss in Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, on January 11, 2022, SI Partners completed a private offering of $400 million in aggregate principal amount of 3.25% senior notes due January 15, 2032. The notes were issued at 98.903% of the principal amount and require semi-annual interest payments in January and July, commencing July 15, 2022. Sempra Infrastructure intends to use the net proceeds of $390 million for general corporate purposes, which may include the repayment of certain indebtedness of its subsidiaries. On February 18, 2022, SDG&E entered into a $400 million, two-year term loan with a maturity date of February 18, 2024. SDG&E may request up to three borrowings for an aggregate amount of $400 million through May 18, 2022. On February 18, 2022, SDG&E borrowed $200 million. The borrowing bears interest at benchmark rates plus 62.5 bps. The margin is based on SDG&E’s long-term senior unsecured credit rating. At December 31, 2021, Sempra expects to make interest payments on long-term debt totaling $15.7 billion, of which $793 million is expected to be paid in 2022 and $14.9 billion is expected to be paid in subsequent years through 2079. At December 31, 2021, SDG&E expects to make interest payments on long-term debt totaling $4.4 billion, of which $244 million is expected to be paid in 2022 and $4.2 billion is expected to be paid in subsequent years through 2051. At December 31, 2021, SoCalGas expects to make interest payments on long-term debt totaling $2.8 billion, of which $167 million is expected to be paid in 2022 and $2.6 billion is expected to be paid in subsequent years through 2050. We calculate expected interest payments using the stated interest rate for fixed-rate obligations, including floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps and cross-currency swaps. We calculate expected interest payments for variable-rate obligations based on forecasted rates in effect at December 31, 2021. We discuss our long-term debt activities, including the use of proceeds on long-term debt issuances, and maturities in Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Credit Ratings The credit ratings of Sempra, SDG&E and SoCalGas remained at investment grade levels in 2021. A downgrade of Sempra’s or any of its subsidiaries’ credit ratings or rating outlooks may, depending on the severity, result in a requirement for collateral to be posted in the case of certain financing arrangements and may materially and adversely affect the market prices of their equity and debt securities, the rates at which borrowings are made and commercial paper is issued, and the various fees on their outstanding credit facilities. This could make it more costly for Sempra, SDG&E, SoCalGas and Sempra’s other subsidiaries to issue debt securities, to borrow under credit facilities and to raise certain other types of financing. We provide additional information about our credit ratings at Sempra, SDG&E and SoCalGas in “Part I – Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Sempra has agreed that, if the credit rating of Oncor’s senior secured debt by any of the three major rating agencies falls below BBB (or the equivalent), Oncor will suspend dividends and other distributions (except for contractual tax payments), unless otherwise allowed by the PUCT. Oncor’s senior secured debt was rated A2, A+ and A at Moody’s, S&P and Fitch, respectively, at December 31, 2021. Sempra, SDG&E and SoCalGas have committed lines of credit to provide liquidity and to support commercial paper. Borrowings under these facilities bear interest at benchmark rates plus a margin that varies with market index rates and each borrower’s credit rating. Each facility also requires a commitment fee on available unused credit that may be impacted by each borrower’s credit rating. For example, assuming a one-notch downgrade: ▪ If Sempra were to experience a ratings downgrade from its current level, the rate at which borrowings bear interest would increase by 25 bps. The commitment fee on available unused credit would also increase 5 bps. ▪ If SDG&E were to experience a ratings downgrade from its current level, the rate at which borrowings bear interest would increase by 12.5 bps. The commitment fee on available unused credit would also increase 5 bps. ▪ If SoCalGas were to experience a ratings downgrade from its current level, the rate at which borrowings bear interest would increase by 12.5 bps. The commitment fee on available unused credit would also increase 2.5 bps. Sempra’s, SDG&E’s and SoCalGas’ credit ratings also may affect their respective credit limits related to derivative instruments, as we discuss in Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 78 Loans to/from Affiliates At December 31, 2021, Sempra had $637 million in loans due from unconsolidated affiliates and $287 million in loans due to unconsolidated affiliates. Note Receivable As we discuss in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, in November 2021, Sempra loaned $300 million to KKR in exchange for an interest-bearing promissory note and reimbursed $5 million of loan-related transaction costs incurred by KKR. The promissory note is due to be repaid in full no later than October 1, 2029 and bears compound interest at 5% per annum. Sempra California SDG&E’s and SoCalGas’ operations have historically provided relatively stable earnings and liquidity. Their future performance and liquidity will depend primarily on the ratemaking and regulatory process, environmental regulations, economic conditions, actions by the California legislature, litigation and the changing energy marketplace, as well as other matters described in this report. SDG&E and SoCalGas expect that the available unused credit from their credit facilities described above, cash flows from operations, and debt issuances will continue to be adequate to fund their respective current operations and planned capital expenditures. Additionally, as we discuss below, Sempra elected to make an equity contribution to SoCalGas in 2021 and may elect to make additional equity contributions in the future that are intended to maintain SoCalGas’ approved capital structure in connection with the accruals related to the Leak. We describe SDG&E’s and SoCalGas’ commitments related to construction projects, operating and finance leases, and purchase obligations related to the procurement of power and natural gas in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SDG&E and SoCalGas manage their capital structures and pay dividends when appropriate and as approved by their respective boards of directors. As we discuss in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, changes in balancing accounts for significant costs at SDG&E and SoCalGas, particularly a change between over- and undercollected status, may have a significant impact on cash flows. These changes generally represent the difference between when costs are incurred and when they are ultimately recovered or refunded in rates through billings to customers. COVID-19 Pandemic Protections SDG&E and SoCalGas are continuing to monitor the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on cash flows and results of operations. Some customers have experienced and continue to experience a diminished ability to pay their electric or gas bills, leading to slower payments and higher levels of nonpayment than has been the case historically. These impacts could become significant and could require modifications to our financing plans. In connection with the COVID-19 pandemic and at the direction of the CPUC, SDG&E and SoCalGas implemented certain measures to assist customers, including suspending service disconnections due to nonpayment for all customers (except for SoCalGas’ noncore customers), waiving late payment fees, and offering flexible payment plans. At the CPUC’s direction, SDG&E and SoCalGas are automatically enrolling residential and small business customers with past-due balances in long-term repayment plans. In 2021, SDG&E and SoCalGas applied, on behalf of their customers, for financial assistance from the California Department of Community Services and Development under the California Arrearage Payment Program, which provided funds of $63 million and $79 million for SDG&E and SoCalGas, respectively. In the first quarter of 2022, SDG&E and SoCalGas received and will apply the amounts directly to eligible customer accounts to reduce past due balances. SDG&E and SoCalGas have been authorized to track and request recovery of incremental costs associated with complying with customer protection measures implemented by the CPUC related to the COVID-19 pandemic, including costs associated with suspending service disconnections and uncollectible expenses that arise from customers’ failure to pay. SDG&E and SoCalGas expect to pursue recovery of small and medium-large commercial and industrial customers’ tracked costs in rates in future CPUC proceedings, which recovery is not assured. Uncollectible expenses related to residential customers are recorded in a two-way balancing account as we discuss below. The continuation of these circumstances could result in a further reduction in payments received from SDG&E’s and SoCalGas’ customers and a further increase in uncollectible accounts, which could become material, and any inability or delay in recovering all or a substantial portion of these costs could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects of Sempra, SDG&E and SoCalGas. We discuss regulatory mechanisms in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 79 Disconnection OIR In June 2020, the CPUC issued a decision addressing residential service disconnections that, among other things, allows SDG&E and SoCalGas to each establish a two-way balancing account to record the uncollectible expenses associated with residential customers’ inability to pay their electric or gas bills. This decision, which became effective in February 2021, also directs SDG&E and SoCalGas to each establish an AMP that provides successfully participating, income-qualified residential customers with relief from outstanding utility bill amounts. SDG&E and SoCalGas have recorded changes in their allowances for uncollectible accounts at December 31, 2021 primarily related to expected forgiveness of outstanding bill amounts for customers eligible under the AMP. The AMP could result in a further reduction in payments received from SDG&E’s and SoCalGas’ customers and a further increase to uncollectible accounts, which could become material, and any inability to recover these costs could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects of Sempra, SDG&E and SoCalGas. CCM A CPUC cost of capital proceeding determines a utility’s authorized capital structure and authorized return on rate base. In December 2019, the CPUC approved the cost of capital and rate structures for SDG&E and SoCalGas that became effective on January 1, 2020 and will remain in effect through December 31, 2022, subject to the CCM. The CCM applies in the interim years between required cost of capital applications and considers changes in the cost of capital based on changes in interest rates based on the applicable utility bond index published by Moody’s (the CCM benchmark rate) for each 12-month period ending September 30 (the measurement period). The CCM benchmark rate is the basis of comparison to determine if the CCM is triggered, which occurs if the change in the applicable Moody’s utility bond index relative to the CCM benchmark rate is larger than plus or minus 1.000% at the end of the measurement period. The index applicable to SDG&E and SoCalGas is based on each utility’s credit rating. SDG&E’s CCM benchmark rate is 4.498% based on Moody’s Baa- utility bond index, and SoCalGas’ CCM benchmark rate is 4.029% based on Moody’s A- utility bond index. Alternatively, under the CCM, SDG&E and SoCalGas are permitted to file a cost of capital application in an interim year in which an extraordinary or catastrophic event materially impacts its cost of capital and affects utilities differently than the market as a whole. For the measurement period ended September 30, 2021, the CCM would trigger for SDG&E because the average Moody’s Baa- utility bond index between October 1, 2020 and September 30, 2021 was 1.17% below SDG&E’s CCM benchmark rate of 4.498%. In August 2021, SDG&E filed an application with the CPUC to update its cost of capital effective January 1, 2022 due to the ongoing effects of the COVID-19 pandemic rather than have the CCM apply. In this application, SDG&E proposed to adjust its authorized capital structure by increasing its common equity ratio from 52% to 54%. SDG&E also proposed to increase its authorized ROE from 10.20% to 10.55% and decrease its authorized cost of debt from 4.59% to 3.84%. As a result, SDG&E’s proposed return on rate base would decrease from 7.55% to 7.46% if such application is approved by the CPUC as filed. SDG&E filed a joint motion with PG&E and Edison to consolidate all three utilities’ cost of capital applications given the overlapping issues of law and fact, which joint motion was granted in October 2021. In December 2021, the CPUC established a proceeding to determine if SDG&E’s cost of capital was impacted by an extraordinary event. If the CPUC finds that there was not an extraordinary event, the CCM would be effective retroactive to January 1, 2022 and would automatically adjust SDG&E’s authorized ROE from 10.20% to 9.62% and adjust its authorized cost of debt to reflect the then current embedded cost and projected interest rate. If the CPUC finds that there was an extraordinary event, it will then determine whether to suspend the CCM for 2022 and preserve SDG&E’s current authorized cost of capital or hold a second phase of the proceeding to set a new cost of capital for 2022. SDG&E expects a final decision in the second half of 2022. In December 2021, the CPUC granted SDG&E the establishment of memorandum accounts effective January 1, 2022 to track any differences in revenue requirement resulting from the interim cost of capital decision expected in 2022. For the measurement period ended September 30, 2021, the CCM was not triggered for SoCalGas. SDG&E and SoCalGas are required to file their next cost of capital applications in April 2022 for a January 1, 2023 effective date. We further discuss the CCM in “Part I – Item 1A. Risk Factors.” SDG&E Wildfire Fund The carrying value of SDG&E’s Wildfire Fund asset totals $360 million at December 31, 2021. We describe the Wildfire Legislation, related accounting treatment and SDG&E’s commitment to make annual shareholder contributions to the Wildfire Fund through 2028 in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SDG&E is exposed to the risk that the participating California electric IOUs may incur third-party wildfire costs for which they will seek recovery from the Wildfire Fund with respect to wildfires that have occurred since enactment of the Wildfire Legislation 80 in July 2019. In such a situation, SDG&E may recognize a reduction of its Wildfire Fund asset and record an impairment charge against earnings when there is a reduction of the available coverage due to recoverable claims from any of the participating IOUs. PG&E has indicated that it will seek reimbursement from the Wildfire Fund for losses associated with the Dixie Fire, which burned from July 2021 through October 2021 and was reported to be the largest single wildfire (measured by acres burned) in California history. If any California electric IOU’s equipment is determined to be a cause of a fire, it could have a material adverse effect on SDG&E’s and Sempra’s financial condition and results of operations up to the carrying value of our Wildfire Fund asset, with additional potential material exposure if SDG&E’s equipment is determined to be a cause of a fire. In addition, the Wildfire Fund could be completely exhausted due to fires in the other California electric IOUs’ service territories, by fires in SDG&E’s service territory or by a combination thereof. In the event that the Wildfire Fund is materially diminished, exhausted or terminated, SDG&E will lose the protection afforded by the Wildfire Fund, and as a consequence, a fire in SDG&E’s service territory could have a material adverse effect on SDG&E’s and Sempra’s results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Wildfire Cost Recovery Mechanism In July 2021, SDG&E filed a request with the CPUC to establish an interim cost recovery mechanism that would recover in rates 50% of its wildfire mitigation plan regulatory account balance as of January 1 of each year. Such potential recovery would be incremental to wildfire costs authorized in its GRC and would be subject to reasonableness review. We expect the CPUC to issue a final decision in the first half of 2022. SONGS Decommissioning SDG&E has significant investments in the SONGS NDT to provide for future payments of nuclear decommissioning. The NDT’s ability to make ongoing required payments have not been materially or adversely affected by changes in asset values, which are dependent on market fluctuations, contributions and withdrawals. However, asset values could be materially and adversely affected by future activity in the equity and fixed income markets, and changes in the estimated decommissioning costs, or in the assumptions and judgments made by management underlying these estimates, could cause revisions to the estimated total cost associated with retiring the assets. Funding requirements are generally recoverable in rates. We discuss SDG&E’s NDT and its expected SONGS decommissioning payments in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements SDG&E has entered into PPAs and tolling agreements that are variable interests in unconsolidated entities. We discuss variable interests in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SoCalGas SoCalGas’ future performance and liquidity will be impacted by the resolution of legal, regulatory and other matters concerning the Leak, which we discuss below, in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, and in “Part I – Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Aliso Canyon Natural Gas Storage Facility Gas Leak From October 23, 2015 through February 11, 2016, SoCalGas experienced a natural gas leak from one of the injection-and-withdrawal wells, SS25, at its Aliso Canyon natural gas storage facility located in Los Angeles County. Cost Estimate, Accounting Impact and Insurance. At December 31, 2021, SoCalGas estimates certain costs related to the Leak are $3,221 million (the cost estimate). This cost estimate may increase significantly as more information becomes available. A portion of the cost estimate has been paid, and $1,983 million is accrued as Reserve for Aliso Canyon Costs at December 31, 2021 on SoCalGas’ and Sempra’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. Sempra elected to make an $800 million equity contribution to SoCalGas in September 2021 and may elect to make additional equity contributions in the future that are intended to maintain SoCalGas’ approved capital structure in connection with the accruals related to these agreements. Sempra does not expect to issue common equity to fund any such equity contributions. Except for the amounts paid or estimated to settle certain legal and regulatory matters, the cost estimate does not include (i) any amounts necessary to resolve claims of Individual Plaintiffs who do not agree to participate in the settlement of the Individual Actions or members of the Property Class Action who opt out of that settlement or (ii) the matters that we describe in “Civil Litigation – Unresolved Litigation” and “Regulatory Proceedings” in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements to the extent it is not possible to predict at this time the outcome of these actions or reasonably estimate the possible costs or a range of possible costs for damages, restitution, civil or administrative fines or penalties, defense, settlement or other costs or remedies that may be imposed or incurred. The cost estimate also does not include certain other costs incurred by Sempra 81 associated with defending against shareholder derivative lawsuits and other potential costs that we currently do not anticipate incurring or that we cannot reasonably estimate. Further, we are not able to reasonably estimate the possible loss or a range of possible losses in excess of the amounts accrued. These costs or losses not included in the cost estimate could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on SoCalGas’ and Sempra’s results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. We have received insurance payments for many of the categories of costs included in the cost estimate, including temporary relocation and associated processing costs, control-of-well expenses, costs of the government-ordered response to the Leak, certain legal costs and lost gas. As of December 31, 2021, we recorded the expected recovery of the cost estimate related to the Leak of $360 million as Insurance Receivable for Aliso Canyon Costs on SoCalGas’ and Sempra’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. This amount is exclusive of insurance retentions and $919 million of insurance proceeds we received through December 31, 2021. We intend to pursue the full extent of our insurance coverage for the costs we have incurred. Other than insurance for certain future defense costs we may incur as well as directors’ and officers’ liability, we have exhausted all of our insurance in this matter. We continue to pursue other sources of insurance coverage for costs related to this matter, but we may not be successful in obtaining additional insurance recovery for any of these costs. If we are not able to secure additional insurance recovery, if any costs we have recorded as an insurance receivable are not collected, if there are delays in receiving insurance recoveries, or if the insurance recoveries are subject to income taxes while the associated costs are not tax deductible, such amounts, which could be significant, could have a material adverse effect on SoCalGas’ and Sempra’s results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Natural Gas Storage Operations and Reliability. Natural gas withdrawn from storage is important for service reliability during peak demand periods, including peak electric generation needs in the summer and consumer heating needs in the winter. The Aliso Canyon natural gas storage facility is the largest SoCalGas storage facility and an important component of SoCalGas’ delivery system. As a result of the Leak, the CPUC has issued a series of directives to SoCalGas specifying the range of working gas to be maintained in the Aliso Canyon natural gas storage facility as well as protocols for the withdrawal of gas, to support safe and reliable natural gas service. In February 2017, the CPUC opened a proceeding pursuant to the SB 380 OII to determine the feasibility of minimizing or eliminating the use of the Aliso Canyon natural gas storage facility while still maintaining energy and electric reliability for the region, including considering alternative means for meeting or avoiding the demand for the facility’s services if it were eliminated. At December 31, 2021, the Aliso Canyon natural gas storage facility had a net book value of $883 million. If the Aliso Canyon natural gas storage facility were to be permanently closed or if future cash flows from its operation were otherwise insufficient to recover its carrying value, we may record an impairment of the facility, incur higher than expected operating costs and/or be required to make additional capital expenditures (any or all of which may not be recoverable in rates), and natural gas reliability and electric generation could be jeopardized. Any such outcome could have a material adverse effect on SoCalGas’ and Sempra’s results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Labor Relations Field, technical and most clerical employees at SoCalGas are represented by the Utility Workers Union of America or the International Chemical Workers Union Council. On October 1, 2021, a new collective bargaining agreement for these employees, covering wages, hours, working conditions, and medical and other benefits, went into effect through September 2024. Franchise Agreement SoCalGas’ natural gas franchise agreement with the City of Los Angeles expired on December 31, 2021. In December 2021, the Los Angeles City Council awarded SoCalGas a new, 21-year natural gas franchise following an invitation for bids, which was approved and signed by the City of Los Angeles mayor in January 2022. The 21-year term consists of an initial 13-year term from the effective date, followed by an 8-year term that the City of Los Angeles has the option to terminate. Among other conditions, the new franchise agreement is subject to CPUC approval of the rates and surcharges therein for it to become effective, which SoCalGas filed for in February 2022. In the interim, SoCalGas continues to serve customers located in the City of Los Angeles in accordance with the expired agreement by operation of law. 82 Sempra Texas Utilities Oncor relies on external financing as a significant source of liquidity for its capital requirements. In the event that Oncor fails to meet its capital requirements or is unable to access sufficient capital to finance its ongoing needs, we may elect to make additional capital contributions to Oncor (as our commitments to the PUCT prohibit us from making loans to Oncor), which could be substantial and reduce the cash available to us for other purposes, increase our indebtedness and ultimately materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Oncor’s ability to pay dividends may be limited by factors such as its credit ratings, regulatory capital requirements, increases in its capital plan, debt-to-equity ratio approved by the PUCT and other restrictions and considerations. In addition, Oncor will not pay dividends if a majority of Oncor’s independent directors or any minority member director determines it is in the best interests of Oncor to retain such amounts to meet expected future requirements. Winter Weather Event In February 2021, ERCOT required electric distribution companies, including Oncor, to significantly reduce demand on the grid because electricity generation was insufficient to meet demand due to extreme winter weather. As a result of the load shedding events and state-wide power outages, the PUCT, other governmental authorities or third parties, including Oncor’s customers, have taken or could take other measures to address financial challenges experienced as a result of the event, which could adversely impact Oncor’s collections and cash flows and, in turn, could adversely impact Sempra. The Texas Legislature has passed, and the Governor of Texas has signed, various legislation affecting the ERCOT market, which addresses matters including certain weatherization requirements and fines of up to $1 million per day for failures to comply with such requirements, enabling ERCOT to finance certain amounts owed by ERCOT market participants relating to the winter weather event, creation of the Texas Energy Reliability Council, identification of gas facilities that are critical to electric-generator fuel supplies, coordination between the gas and electric industries, and changes in the composition of the PUCT and the ERCOT board of directors. In addition, various regulatory and governmental entities have also commenced investigations or indicated an intent to investigate the operation of the ERCOT grid during this extreme winter weather event and potential future actions to improve grid reliability. Any significant changes relating to the ERCOT market that impact transmission and distribution utilities as a result of such proceedings or otherwise could materially adversely impact Oncor. If Oncor does not successfully respond to these changes and any other legislative, regulatory, or market or industry developments applicable to it, Oncor could suffer a deterioration in its results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects, which could materially adversely affect Sempra’s results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement Our investment in Oncor Holdings is a variable interest in an unconsolidated entity. We discuss variable interests in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Sempra Infrastructure Sempra Infrastructure expects to fund capital expenditures, investments and operations in part with available funds, including credit facilities, and cash flows from operations of the Sempra Infrastructure businesses. We expect Sempra Infrastructure will require additional funding for the development and expansion of its portfolio of projects, which may be financed through a combination of funding from the parent and minority interest owners, bank financing, issuances of debt, project financing and partnering in JVs. We describe Sempra Infrastructure’s commitments related to construction and development projects in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. As we discuss in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, in October 2021, Sempra Infrastructure completed the sale of a 20% NCI in SI Partners to KKR for cash proceeds of $3.2 billion, including post-closing adjustments and net of $173 million in transaction costs. We used the proceeds from the sale to KKR to partially fund the early redemption of $2.35 billion of Sempra’s long-term debt, which we discuss above in “Long-Term Debt Activities,” and to help fund capital investments in support of incremental growth at Sempra California and Sempra Texas Utilities. In December 2021, we entered into an agreement to sell a 10% NCI in SI Partners to ADIA for cash proceeds of $1.8 billion, subject to adjustments. We expect the transaction will close in the summer of 2022. We intend to use the expected proceeds from the sale to ADIA to help fund incremental capital expenditures at Sempra California and Sempra Texas Utilities, to repay commercial paper borrowings used to repurchase $500 million in shares of our common stock ($300 million of which was completed in the fourth quarter of 2021 and an additional $200 million of which was completed in the first quarter of 2022), and further strengthen our balance sheet. Our ability to complete the ADIA transaction is subject to a number of risks, including, among others, the ability to obtain regulatory and third-party approvals and satisfy other customary closing conditions. If we are not able to obtain these approvals and satisfy all other closing conditions in a timely manner or on satisfactory terms, then the 83 proposed transaction may be abandoned and/or our prospects for Sempra Infrastructure and, in turn, Sempra’s results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. Following the closing of the ADIA transaction, Sempra, KKR and ADIA would directly or indirectly own a 70%, 20%, and 10%, interest, respectively, in SI Partners. The sale of NCI in SI Partners to KKR has reduced and the agreed sale of NCI in SI Partners to ADIA would further reduce our ownership interest in SI Partners, and these sales require us to share control over certain business decisions with the minority partners, which introduces a number of risks associated with sharing business control. Moreover, the decrease in our ownership of SI Partners also decreases our share of the cash flows, profits and other benefits these businesses currently or may in the future produce, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. LNG and Net-Zero Solutions Cameron LNG JV Liquefaction Expansion Project (Phase 2). Cameron LNG JV received major permits and FTA and non-FTA approvals associated with the expansion of the current configuration of the Cameron LNG JV liquefaction project beyond Phase 1. Those permits for the Phase 2 project included up to two additional liquefaction trains and up to two additional full containment LNG storage tanks. In January 2022, Cameron LNG JV filed an amendment, subject to approval by the FERC, to modify the permits to allow the use of electric drives, instead of gas turbine drives, which would reduce overall emissions. We expect the proposed expansion project will initially have one train with offtake capacity of approximately 6.75 Mtpa, with the ability to increase capacity with debottlenecking of the existing trains, and the site can accommodate additional trains beyond Phase 2. Sempra has entered into MOUs with TotalEnergies SE, Mitsui & Co., Ltd. and Mitsubishi Corporation that provide a framework for cooperation for the development of and offtake from the potential Cameron LNG JV Phase 2 project. The ultimate participation of and offtake by TotalEnergies SE, Mitsui & Co., Ltd. and Mitsubishi Corporation remains subject to negotiation and finalization of definitive agreements, among other factors, and TotalEnergies SE, Mitsui & Co., Ltd. and Mitsubishi Corporation have no commitment to participate in, or enter into offtake agreements with respect to, the Phase 2 project unless such definitive agreements are established. Expansion of the Cameron LNG JV liquefaction facility beyond the first three trains is subject to certain restrictions and conditions under the JV project financing agreements, including among others, timing restrictions on expansion of the project unless appropriate prior consent is obtained from the Phase 1 project lenders. Under the Cameron LNG JV equity agreements, the expansion of the project requires the unanimous consent of all the partners, including with respect to the equity investment obligation of each partner. Discussions among all the Cameron LNG JV partners have been taking place regarding how an expansion may be structured, including a facility design utilizing electric drives, and we expect that discussions will continue. Although we are working towards making a final investment decision in the first half of 2023, the timing of when or if Cameron LNG JV will receive approval to amend the permits is uncertain, and there is no assurance that the Cameron LNG JV members will unanimously agree in a timely manner or at all on an expansion structure, which, if not accomplished, would materially and adversely impact the development of the Phase 2 project. The development of the potential Cameron LNG JV Phase 2 project is subject to numerous other risks and uncertainties, including securing binding customer commitments; reaching unanimous agreement with our partners to proceed; obtaining and maintaining a number of permits and regulatory approvals; securing financing; negotiating and completing suitable commercial agreements, including a definitive EPC contract, equity acquisition and governance agreements; reaching a positive final investment decision; and other factors associated with this potential investment. For a discussion of these risks, see “Part I – Item 1A. Risk Factors.” ECA LNG Liquefaction Export Projects. Sempra Infrastructure is developing two natural gas liquefaction export projects at its existing ECA Regas Facility. The liquefaction export projects, which are planned for development in two phases (a mid-scale project by ECA LNG Phase 1 that is under construction and a proposed large-scale project by ECA LNG Phase 2), are being developed to provide buyers with direct access to North American west coast LNG supplies. We do not expect the construction or operation of the ECA LNG Phase 1 project to disrupt operations at the ECA Regas Facility, but have planned measures to limit disruption of operations should any arise. However, construction of the proposed ECA LNG Phase 2 project would conflict with the current operations at the ECA Regas Facility, which currently has long-term regasification contracts for 100% of the regasification facility’s capacity through 2028, making the decisions on whether and how to pursue the ECA LNG Phase 2 project dependent in part on whether the investment in a large-scale liquefaction facility would, over the long term, be more beneficial financially than continuing to supply regasification services under our existing contracts. In March 2019, ECA LNG received two authorizations from the DOE to export U.S.-produced natural gas to Mexico and to re-export LNG to non-FTA countries from its ECA LNG Phase 1 project, which is a one-train natural gas liquefaction facility with a 84 nameplate capacity of 3.25 Mtpa and initial offtake capacity of approximately 2.5 Mtpa that is under construction, and its proposed ECA LNG Phase 2 project that is in development. In April 2020, ECA LNG Phase 1 executed definitive 20-year LNG sale and purchase agreements with Mitsui & Co., Ltd. for approximately 0.8 Mtpa of LNG and with an affiliate of TotalEnergies SE for approximately 1.7 Mtpa of LNG. In December 2020, an affiliate of TotalEnergies SE acquired a 16.6% ownership interest in ECA LNG Phase 1, with Sempra Infrastructure retaining an 83.4% ownership interest. Our MOU with Mitsui & Co., Ltd. provides a framework for Mitsui & Co., Ltd.’s potential offtake of LNG from, and potential acquisition of an equity interest in, ECA LNG Phase 2. In February 2020, we entered into an EPC contract with Technip Energies for the engineering, procurement and construction of the ECA LNG Phase 1 project. Since reaching a positive final investment decision with respect to the project in November 2020, we released Technip Energies to commence work to construct the ECA LNG Phase 1 project. The total price of the EPC contract is estimated at approximately $1.5 billion. We estimate that capital expenditures will approximate $2.0 billion, including capitalized interest and project contingency. The actual cost of the EPC contract and the actual amount of these capital expenditures may differ, perhaps substantially, from our estimates. We expect ECA LNG Phase 1 to begin producing LNG by the end of 2024. In December 2020, ECA LNG Phase 1 entered into a five-year loan agreement for an aggregate principal amount of up to $1.6 billion, of which $341 million was outstanding at December 31, 2021. Proceeds from the loan are being used to finance the cost of construction of the ECA LNG Phase 1 project. We discuss the details of this loan in Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The construction of the ECA LNG Phase 1 project and the development of the potential ECA LNG Phase 2 project are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. For Phase 1, these include maintaining permits and regulatory approvals; construction delays; securing and maintaining commercial arrangements, such as gas supply and transportation agreements; the impact of recent and proposed changes to the law in Mexico; and other factors associated with the project and its construction. For Phase 2, these include obtaining binding customer commitments; the receipt of a number of permits and regulatory approvals; obtaining financing; negotiating and completing suitable commercial agreements, including a definitive EPC contract, equity acquisition and governance agreements, LNG sales agreements and gas supply and transportation agreements; reaching a positive final investment decision; the impact of recent and proposed changes to the law in Mexico; and other factors associated with this potential investment. In addition, as we discuss in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, an unfavorable decision on certain property disputes or permit challenges, an unfavorable judgment that does not allow Sempra Infrastructure to secure new or renew existing LDA authorizations, or an extended dispute with existing customers at the ECA Regas Facility, could materially adversely affect the development and construction of these projects and Sempra’s results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects, including the impairment of all or a substantial portion of the capital costs invested in the projects to date. For a discussion of these risks, see “Part I – Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Port Arthur LNG Liquefaction Export Project. Sempra Infrastructure is developing a proposed natural gas liquefaction export project on a greenfield site that it owns in the vicinity of Port Arthur, Texas, located along the Sabine-Neches waterway. Sempra Infrastructure received authorizations from the DOE in August 2015 and May 2019 that collectively permit the LNG to be produced from the proposed Port Arthur LNG project to be exported to all current and future FTA and non-FTA countries. In February 2020, Sempra Infrastructure filed an application with the DOE to permit LNG produced from a second phase of the proposed Port Arthur LNG facility to be exported to all current and future FTA and non-FTA countries. In April 2019, the FERC approved the siting, construction and operation of the proposed Port Arthur LNG liquefaction facility, along with certain natural gas pipelines, including the Louisiana Connector and Texas Connector Pipelines, that could be used to supply feed gas to the liquefaction facility if and when the project is completed. In February 2020, Sempra Infrastructure filed a FERC application for the siting, construction and operation of a second phase of the proposed Port Arthur LNG facility, including the potential addition of two liquefaction trains. In February 2020, we entered into an EPC contract with Bechtel for the proposed Port Arthur LNG liquefaction project. The EPC contract contemplates the construction of two liquefaction trains with a nameplate capacity of approximately 13.5 Mtpa, two LNG storage tanks, a marine berth and associated loading facilities and related infrastructure necessary to provide liquefaction services. In December 2020, we amended and restated the EPC contract to reflect an estimated price of approximately $8.7 billion. Since we did not issue a full notice to proceed by July 15, 2021, agreement by both parties on an amendment to the EPC contract is necessary to proceed. Such amendment may adjust the EPC contract price and the EPC schedule and could potentially include other changes to the work and terms and conditions of the EPC contract. Any agreement on such an amendment by both parties or on favorable terms to Sempra cannot be assured. 85 In December 2018, Polish Oil & Gas Company (PGNiG) and Port Arthur LNG entered into a definitive 20-year agreement for the sale and purchase of 2 Mtpa of LNG per year from the Port Arthur LNG liquefaction export project. In July 2021, the agreement was terminated and PGNiG and Sempra Infrastructure entered into an MOU to cooperate on the transition of the 2 Mtpa to Sempra Infrastructure’s portfolio of other projects. In May 2019, Aramco Services Company and Sempra Infrastructure signed a Heads of Agreement for the negotiation of a definitive 20-year LNG sale and purchase agreement for 5 Mtpa of LNG offtake from the Port Arthur LNG liquefaction export project. The Heads of Agreement also included the negotiation of a potential 25% equity investment in the project. In January 2020, Aramco Services Company and Sempra Infrastructure signed an Interim Project Participation Agreement related to the proposed project. In June 2021, Aramco Services Company and Sempra Infrastructure agreed to allow the Heads of Agreement and Interim Project Participation Agreement to expire. We continue work to progress development of the proposed Port Arthur LNG liquefaction export project and are evaluating design changes that could reduce overall emissions, including electric drives, renewable power sourcing and other technological solutions. Given uncertainties in the energy markets, including real-time developments of new technologies that could impact the design, scale and structure of the project, we continue to evaluate the timing of a final investment decision. Development of the Port Arthur LNG liquefaction export project is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including obtaining customer commitments; identifying suitable project partners; completing the required commercial agreements, such as equity acquisition and governance agreements, LNG sales agreements and gas supply and transportation agreements; completing construction contracts, including an amendment to the EPC contract with Bechtel; securing and maintaining all necessary permits and approvals; obtaining financing and incentives; reaching a positive final investment decision; and other factors associated with the potential investment. An unfavorable outcome with respect to any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on Sempra’s results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects, including the impairment of all or a substantial portion of the capital costs invested in the project to date. For a discussion of these risks, see “Part I – Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Vista Pacifico LNG Liquefaction Export Project. Sempra Infrastructure is developing Vista Pacifico LNG, a potential natural gas liquefaction, storage, and mid-scale export facility proposed to be located in the vicinity of Topolobampo in Sinaloa, Mexico, under an MOU with the CFE that contemplates the negotiation of definitive agreements that would cover development of Vista Pacifico LNG, as well as a separate natural gas regasification project in La Paz Baja California Sur, and the potential re-routing of a portion of the Guaymas-El Oro segment of the Sonora pipeline and resumption of its operations through mutual agreements between the CFE and the Yaqui tribe. The proposed LNG terminal would be supplied with U.S. natural gas and would use excess natural gas and pipeline capacity on existing pipelines in Mexico with the intent of helping to meet growing demand for natural gas and LNG in the Mexican and Pacific markets. In November 2020, Sempra Infrastructure filed an application with the DOE to permit the export of natural gas to Mexico and for LNG produced from the proposed Vista Pacifico LNG facility to be re-exported to all current and future FTA and non-FTA countries. In April 2021, the DOE granted Vista Pacifico’s LNG export authorization application for FTA countries. The development of the potential Vista Pacifico LNG project (as well as the other projects discussed above) is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including securing binding customer commitments; obtaining and maintaining a number of permits and regulatory approvals; securing financing; identifying suitable project partners; negotiating and completing suitable commercial agreements, including a definitive EPC contract, equity acquisition and governance agreements, LNG sales agreements and gas supply and transportation agreements; reaching a positive final investment decision; the impact of recent and proposed changes to the law in Mexico; and other factors associated with this potential investment. For a discussion of these risks, see “Part I – Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Hackberry Carbon Sequestration Project. Sempra Infrastructure is developing the potential Hackberry carbon capture and sequestration project in Hackberry, Louisiana. This proposed project in development is a carbon dioxide storage facility with the intended capability of permanently sequestering carbon dioxide from Cameron LNG JV. In the third quarter of 2021, Sempra Infrastructure filed an application with the EPA for a Class VI carbon injection well to advance this project. The development of the potential Hackberry carbon capture and sequestration project is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including securing binding customer commitments; identifying suitable project partners; obtaining and maintaining a number of permits and regulatory approvals; securing financing; negotiating and completing suitable commercial agreements, including a definitive EPC contract, and equity acquisition and governance agreements; reaching a positive final investment decision; and other factors associated with this potential investment. For a discussion of these risks, see “Part I – Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. Our investment in Cameron LNG JV is a variable interest in an unconsolidated entity. We discuss variable interests in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 86 In June 2021, Sempra provided a promissory note, which constitutes a guarantee, for the benefit of Cameron LNG JV with a maximum exposure to loss of $165 million. The guarantee will terminate upon full repayment of Cameron LNG JV’s debt, scheduled to occur in 2039, or replenishment of the amount withdrawn by Sempra Infrastructure from the SDSRA. We discuss this guarantee in Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In July 2020, Sempra entered into a Support Agreement, which contains a guarantee and represents a variable interest, for the benefit of CFIN with a maximum exposure to loss of $979 million. The guarantee will terminate upon full repayment of the guaranteed debt by 2039, including repayment following an event in which the guaranteed debt is put to Sempra. We discuss this guarantee in Notes 1, 6 and 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Energy Networks Construction Projects. Sempra Infrastructure began commercial operations of its new terminals for the receipt, storage and delivery of refined fuel products in the new port of Veracruz on March 19, 2021 and in Mexico City on July 2, 2021. The two terminals have a combined storage capacity of more than 2.7 million barrels. The storage capacity for both terminals is contracted with Valero Energy Corporation. Sempra Infrastructure is currently constructing additional terminals for the receipt, storage, and delivery of liquid fuels in the vicinity of Puebla and Topolobampo. As part of an industrywide audit and investigative process initiated by the CRE to enforce fuel procurement laws, federal prosecutors conducted inspections at several refined products terminals, including Sempra Infrastructure’s refined products terminal in Puebla, to confirm that the gasoline and/or diesel in storage were legally imported. During the inspection of the Puebla terminal in September 2021, a federal prosecutor took samples from all the train and storage tanks in the terminal and ordered that the facility be temporarily shut down during the pendency of the analysis of the samples and investigation, while leaving the terminal in Sempra Infrastructure’s custody. In addition, in November 2021, the CRE notified Sempra Infrastructure of the commencement of an administrative proceeding for revoking the storage permit at the Puebla terminal due to alleged breach of its terms and conditions. Although Sempra Infrastructure filed an amparo lawsuit against the closure and has submitted proof of the legal origin of the products to the prosecutor’s office, we are unable to predict when the investigation will be completed, the outcome of the administrative proceeding or whether the facility will be able to commence commercial operations. If the terminal were to be shut down, storage permits were to be revoked or commissioning operations significantly curtailed for an extended period of time, Sempra’s results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. We expect the Topolobampo project to commence commercial operations in the first half of 2022. The ability to successfully complete major construction projects is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. For a discussion of these risks and uncertainties, see “Part I – Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Sempra Infrastructure is also developing terminals for the receipt, storage, and delivery of liquid fuels in the vicinity of Manzanillo and Ensenada. Expected commencement dates could be delayed by worsening or extended disruptions of project construction caused by the COVID-19 pandemic or other factors outside our control. Sempra Infrastructure is continuing to monitor the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on cash flows and results of operations. Clean Power Construction Projects. Sempra Infrastructure completed construction and began commercial operations of a new 150-MW solar power generation facility (Border Solar) in Ciudad Juárez, Chihuahua on March 25, 2021. Border Solar is fully contracted by third-party companies under long-term PPAs expiring in 2032 and 2037, though it requires an amendment to its self-supply permit granted by the CRE in order to supply its customers. The energy production is currently being sold in the open market at variable rates. ESJ completed construction and began commercial operations of a second, 108-MW wind power generation facility on January 15, 2022. This second wind power generation facility is fully contracted by SDG&E under a long-term PPA expiring in 2042. Acquisition of ESJ. As we discuss in Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, in March 2021, Sempra Infrastructure increased its ownership interest in ESJ from 50% to 100% by acquiring Saavi Energía’s 50% equity interest in ESJ. Legal and Regulatory Matters See Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussions of the following legal and regulatory matters affecting our operations in Mexico: Energía Costa Azul ▪ 87 ▪ ▪ One or more unfavorable final decisions on these land and customer disputes or environmental and social impact permit challenges could materially adversely affect our existing natural gas regasification operations and proposed natural gas liquefaction projects at the site of the ECA Regas Facility and have a material adverse effect on Sempra’s business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Sonora Pipeline ▪ ▪ Our investment in the Guaymas-El Oro segment of the Sonora pipeline could be subject to impairment if Sempra Infrastructure is unable to make certain repairs (which have not commenced) or re-route a portion of the pipeline (which has not been agreed to by the parties, but is subject to negotiation pursuant to a non-binding MOU, as described above) and resume operations in the Guaymas-El Oro segment of the Sonora pipeline or if Sempra Infrastructure terminates the contract and is unable to obtain recovery. In addition, the failure to stay the court judgment nullifying Sempra Infrastructure’s right-of-way easement for a portion of the Sasabe-Puerto Libertad-Guaymas segment of the Sonora pipeline pending the resolution of Sempra Infrastructure’s planned special judicial action or prevail in preserving the easement in the special judicial action could require us to modify the route of the pipeline and could require a temporary shutdown of this portion of the pipeline. Any such occurrence could have a material adverse effect on Sempra’s business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Regulatory and Other Actions by the Mexican Government ▪ ▪ ▪ ▪ ▪ ▪ Sempra Infrastructure and other parties affected by these resolutions, orders, decrees, regulations and proposed amendments to Mexican law have challenged them by filing amparo and other claims, some of which have been granted injunctive relief. The court-ordered injunctions or suspensions provide temporary relief until Mexico’s federal district court or Supreme Court ultimately resolves the amparo and other claims. If passed in its current form, the proposed constitutional reform introduces significant changes to the legal and economic principles underlying the country’s energy reform of 2013, generating imminent risks for private investments in this sector. An unfavorable decision on one or more of these amparo or other challenges, the potential for extended disputes, or if passed in its current form, the proposed constitutional reform may impact our ability to operate our facilities at existing levels or at all, may result in increased costs for Sempra Infrastructure and its customers, may adversely affect our ability to develop new projects, and may negatively impact our ability to recover the carrying values of our investments in Mexico, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. Parent and Other PXiSE In December 2021, Parent and other completed the sale of its 80% interest in PXiSE for total cash proceeds of $38 million, net of transaction costs totaling $4 million, and recorded a $36 million ($26 million after tax) gain, which is included in Gain (Loss) on Sale of Assets on Sempra’s Consolidated Statement of Operations. SOURCES AND USES OF CASH The following tables include only significant changes in cash flow activities for each of our registrants. 88 89 90 Expenditures for PP&E We invest the majority of our capital expenditures in Sempra California, primarily for transmission and distribution improvements, including pipeline and wildfire safety. The following table summarizes by segment capital expenditures for the last three years. 91 Expenditures for Investments and Acquisitions The following table summarizes by segment our investments in various JVs, as well as business and asset acquisitions. Future Capital Expenditures and Investments The amounts and timing of capital expenditures and certain investments are generally subject to approvals by various regulatory and other governmental and environmental bodies, including the CPUC, the FERC and the PUCT, and various other factors described in this MD&A and in “Part I – Item 1A. Risk Factors.” In 2022, we expect to make capital expenditures and investments of approximately $6.2 billion (which excludes capital expenditures that will be funded by unconsolidated entities), as summarized by segment in the following table. We expect the majority of our capital expenditures and investments in 2022 will relate to transmission and distribution improvements at our regulated public utilities, and construction of the ECA LNG Phase 1 liquefaction export project at Sempra Infrastructure. From 2022 through 2026, and subject to the factors described below, which could cause these estimates to vary substantially, Sempra expects to make aggregate capital expenditures and investments of approximately $24.4 billion (which excludes capital expenditures that will be funded by unconsolidated entities), as follows: $11.4 billion at SDG&E, $9.8 billion at SoCalGas, $1.1 billion at Sempra Texas Utilities and $2.1 billion at Sempra Infrastructure. Capital expenditure amounts include capitalized interest and AFUDC related to debt. Periodically, we review our construction, investment and financing programs and revise them in response to changes in regulation, economic conditions, competition, customer growth, inflation, customer rates, the cost and availability of capital, and safety and environmental requirements. Our level of capital expenditures and investments in the next few years may vary substantially and will depend on, among other things, the cost and availability of financing, regulatory approvals, changes in U.S. federal tax law and business opportunities providing desirable rates of return. See “Part I – Item 1A. Risk Factors” for a discussion of other factors that could affect future 92 levels of our capital expenditures and investments. We intend to finance our capital expenditures in a manner that will maintain our investment-grade credit ratings and capital structure, but there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so. Weighted-Average Rate Base Rate base is the value of assets on which SDG&E and SoCalGas are permitted to earn a specified rate of return in accordance with rules set by regulatory agencies, including the CPUC and the FERC (for SDG&E), which is calculated using a 13-month average in accordance with CPUC methodology as adopted in rate-setting proceedings. The following table summarizes the weighted-average rate base for SDG&E and SoCalGas for the last three years. The increase in weighted-average rate base reflects the significant capital investments that SDG&E and SoCalGas have made in transmission and distribution safety and reliability. We expect the weighted-average rate base to continue to increase in 2022 based on our expected capital investments. Capital Stock Transactions Sempra Cash provided by issuances of common and preferred stock was: ▪ $5 million in 2021 ▪ $902 million in 2020 ▪ $1.8 billion in 2019 IEnova Exchange Offer and Cash Tender Offer. In May 2021, we acquired 381,015,194 publicly owned shares of IEnova in exchange for 12,306,777 newly issued shares of our common stock upon completion of our exchange offer launched in the U.S. and Mexico, which increased our ownership interest in IEnova from 70.2% to 96.4%. In September 2021, we completed a cash tender offer and acquired 51,014,545 publicly owned shares of IEnova for 4.0 billion Mexican pesos (approximately $202 million in U.S. dollars) in cash, which increased our ownership interest in IEnova from 96.4% to 99.9%. We describe these transactions in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition to being traded on the New York Stock Exchange, Sempra’s common stock is also listed on the Mexican Stock Exchange under the trading symbol SRE.MX. IEnova’s shares were delisted from the Mexican Stock Exchange effective October 15, 2021. In connection with the delisting, we are maintaining a trust for the purpose of purchasing the 1,212,981 IEnova shares that remained publicly owned as of the completion of the cash tender offer for 78.97 Mexican pesos per share, the same price per share that was offered in our cash tender offer. The trust will be in place through the earlier of April 14, 2022 or the date on which we acquire all remaining publicly owned IEnova shares. As of February 16, 2022, an aggregate of 629,784 of the remaining publicly owned IEnova shares had been acquired by such trust. Sempra Common Stock Repurchases. As we discuss in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, in November and December of 2021, we entered into and completed an open market repurchase program under which we paid $300 million to repurchase 2,422,758 shares of our common stock at a weighted-average purchase price of $123.83 per share, excluding commissions. We repurchased an additional 1,472,756 shares of our common stock for $200 million pursuant to an ASR program that was completed on February 11, 2022. These share repurchases were funded with commercial paper borrowings that we plan to repay with a portion of the anticipated proceeds from the sale of NCI in SI Partners to ADIA, which we expect to close in the summer of 2022 subject to the receipt of certain regulatory and third-party approvals and other customary closing conditions. 93 Dividends Sempra Sempra paid cash dividends of: ▪ $1,331 million for common stock and $99 million for preferred stock in 2021 ▪ $1,174 million for common stock and $157 million for preferred stock in 2020 ▪ $993 million for common stock and $142 million for preferred stock in 2019 Dividends declared on common stock have increased in each of the last three years due to an increase in the per-share quarterly dividends approved by our board of directors to $1.10 in 2021 ($4.40 annually) from $1.045 in 2020 ($4.18 annually) and from $0.9675 in 2019 ($3.87 annually). On February 24, 2022, our board of directors approved an increase in Sempra’s quarterly common stock dividend to $1.145 per share ($4.58 annually), the first of which is payable April 15, 2022. In addition, on February 24, 2022, our board of directors declared semi-annual dividends of $24.375 per share on our series C preferred stock, payable on April 15, 2022. All declarations of dividends on our common stock and preferred stock are made at the discretion of the board of directors. While we view dividends as an integral component of shareholder return, the amount of future dividends will depend on earnings, cash flows, financial and legal requirements, and other relevant factors at that time. As a result, Sempra’s dividends on common stock declared on an annual historical basis, including recent historical increases and annualized dividends for the current fiscal year, may not be indicative of future declarations. SDG&E In 2021 and 2020, SDG&E paid common stock dividends to Enova and Enova paid corresponding dividends to Sempra of $300 million and $200 million, respectively. SDG&E did not declare or pay common stock dividends in 2019. SDG&E’s dividends on common stock declared on an annual historical basis may not be indicative of future declarations and could be impacted over the next few years in order for SDG&E to maintain its authorized capital structure while managing its capital investment program. Enova, a wholly owned subsidiary of Sempra, owns all of SDG&E’s outstanding common stock. Accordingly, dividends paid by SDG&E to Enova and dividends paid by Enova to Sempra are eliminated in Sempra’s consolidated financial statements. SoCalGas In 2021, 2020 and 2019, SoCalGas paid common stock dividends to PE and PE paid corresponding dividends to Sempra of $75 million, $100 million and $150 million, respectively. SoCalGas’ dividends on common stock declared on an annual historical basis may not be indicative of future declarations and could be impacted over the next few years in order for SoCalGas to maintain its authorized capital structure. PE, a wholly owned subsidiary of Sempra, owns all of SoCalGas’ outstanding common stock. Accordingly, dividends paid by SoCalGas to PE and dividends paid by PE to Sempra are eliminated in Sempra’s consolidated financial statements. Dividend Restrictions The board of directors for each of Sempra, SDG&E and SoCalGas has the discretion to determine whether to declare and, if declared, the amount of any dividends by each such entity. The CPUC’s regulation of SDG&E’s and SoCalGas’ capital structures limits the amounts that are available for loans and dividends to Sempra. At December 31, 2021, based on these regulations, Sempra could have received combined loans and dividends of approximately $798 million from SDG&E and $445 million from SoCalGas. We provide additional information about dividend restrictions in “Restricted Net Assets” in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Book Value Per Common Share Sempra’s book value per common share on the last day of each of the last three fiscal years was as follows: ▪ $79.17 in 2021 ▪ $70.11 in 2020 ▪ $60.58 in 2019 The increase in 2021 was primarily due to a fair value that was higher than carrying value related to the change in ownership, which did not result in a change of control, from the sale of NCI in SI Partners to KKR, the IEnova exchange offer and 94 subsequent cash tender offer, and the common shares issued from the conversion of series A preferred stock and series B preferred stock. In 2020, the increase was primarily due to comprehensive income exceeding dividends, offset by common stock repurchases. Capitalization Our debt to capitalization ratio, calculated as total debt as a percentage of total debt and equity, was as follows: Significant changes in 2021 that affected capitalization included the following: ▪ Sempra: decrease in long-term debt, offset by an increase in short-term debt and increase in equity primarily from the sale of NCI. ▪ SDG&E: increase in short-term and long-term debt and increase in equity from comprehensive income exceeding dividends. ▪ SoCalGas: decrease in equity from comprehensive loss, offset by equity contributions from Sempra exceeding dividends. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Management views certain accounting estimates as critical because their application is the most relevant, judgmental and/or material to our financial position and results of operations, and/or because they require the use of material judgments and estimates. We discuss critical accounting estimates that are material to our financial statements with the Audit Committee of Sempra’s board of directors. CONTINGENCIES Sempra, SDG&E, SoCalGas We accrue losses for the estimated impacts of various conditions, situations or circumstances involving uncertain outcomes. For loss contingencies, we accrue the loss if an event has occurred on or before the balance sheet date and if: ▪ information available through the date we file our financial statements indicates it is probable that a loss has been incurred, given the likelihood of uncertain future events ▪ the amount of the loss or a range of possible losses can be reasonably estimated We do not accrue contingencies that might result in gains. We continuously assess contingencies for litigation claims, environmental remediation and other events. Actual amounts realized upon settlement of contingencies may be different than amounts recorded and disclosed and may affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Details of our issues in this area are discussed in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 95 REGULATORY ACCOUNTING Sempra, SDG&E, SoCalGas As regulated entities, SDG&E’s and SoCalGas’ customer rates, as set and monitored by regulators, are designed to recover the cost of providing service and provide the opportunity to earn a reasonable return on their investments. SDG&E and SoCalGas assess probabilities of future rate recovery associated with regulatory account balances at the end of each reporting period and whenever new and/or unusual events occur, such as: ▪ changes in the regulatory and political environment or the utility’s competitive position ▪ issuance of a regulatory commission order ▪ passage of new legislation To the extent that circumstances associated with regulatory balances change, the regulatory balances are evaluated and adjusted if appropriate. Significant management judgment is required to evaluate the anticipated recovery of regulatory assets and plant investments, the recognition of incentives and revenues subject to refund, as well as the existence and amount of regulatory liabilities. Adverse regulatory or legislative actions could materially impact the amounts of our regulatory assets and liabilities and could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Specifically, if future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, all or part of the associated regulatory assets and/or plant investments would need to be written off against current period earnings, or adverse regulatory or legislative actions could give rise to material new or higher regulatory liabilities. We discuss details of SDG&E’s and SoCalGas’ regulatory assets and liabilities and additional factors that management considers when assessing probabilities associated with regulatory balances in Notes 1, 4, 15 and 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. INCOME TAXES Sempra, SDG&E, SoCalGas Our income tax expense and related balance sheet amounts involve significant management judgments and estimates. Amounts of deferred income tax assets and liabilities, as well as current and noncurrent accruals, involve judgments and estimates of the timing and probability of recognition of income and deductions by taxing authorities. When we evaluate the anticipated resolution of income tax issues, we consider: ▪ past resolutions of the same issue or similar issues ▪ the status of any income tax examination in progress ▪ positions taken by taxing authorities with other taxpayers with similar issues The likelihood of deferred income tax recovery is based on analyses of the deferred income tax assets and our expectation of future taxable income, based on our strategic planning. Should a change in facts or circumstances lead to a change in judgment about the ultimate realizability of a deferred tax asset, we would record or adjust the related valuation allowance in the period that the change in facts and circumstances occurs, along with a corresponding increase or decrease in the provision for income taxes. Actual income taxes could vary from estimated amounts because of: ▪ future impacts of various items, including changes in tax laws, regulations, interpretations and rulings ▪ our financial condition in future periods ▪ the resolution of various income tax issues between us and taxing and regulatory authorities Unrecognized tax benefits involve management’s judgment regarding the likelihood of the benefit being sustained. The final resolution of uncertain tax positions could result in adjustments to recorded amounts and may affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We discuss these matters and additional information related to accounting for income taxes, including uncertainty in income taxes, in Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. DERIVATIVES ACCOUNTING 96 Sempra, SDG&E We record derivative instruments for which we do not apply a scope exception at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We also use the normal purchase or sale exception for certain derivative contracts, which is applied on a contract-by-contract basis. Changes in assumed physical delivery on contracts for which we elected normal purchase or sale accounting may result in “tainting” of the election, which may preclude us from making this election in future transactions, thereby impacting Sempra’s and/or SDG&E’s results of operations. The impacts of derivatives accounting on SDG&E’s results of operations are typically not significant because regulatory accounting principles generally apply to its contracts. We provide details of our derivative instruments and our fair value approaches in Notes 11 and 12, respectively, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS Sempra, SDG&E, SoCalGas To measure our pension and other postretirement benefit obligations, costs and liabilities, we rely on several assumptions. We consider current market conditions, including interest rates, in making these assumptions. We review these assumptions annually and update when appropriate. The critical assumptions used to develop the required estimates include the following key factors: ▪ discount rates ▪ expected return on plan assets ▪ health care cost trend rates ▪ mortality rates ▪ rate of compensation increases ▪ termination and retirement rates ▪ utilization of postretirement welfare benefits ▪ payout elections (lump sum or annuity) ▪ lump sum interest rates The actuarial assumptions we use may differ materially from actual results due to: ▪ return on plan assets ▪ changing market and economic conditions ▪ higher or lower withdrawal rates ▪ longer or shorter participant life spans ▪ more or fewer lump sum versus annuity payout elections made by plan participants ▪ higher or lower retirement rates Changes in the estimated costs or timing of pension and other postretirement benefits, or the assumptions and judgments used by management underlying these estimates (primarily the discount rate and assumed rate of return on plan assets), as well as changes in the circumstances associated with rate recovery, could have a material effect on the recorded expenses and liabilities. The following tables summarize the impact to our projected benefit obligation for pension, accumulated benefit obligation for PBOP, and projected benefit costs, in each case if the discount rate or assumed rate of return on plan assets were changed by 100 bps at December 31, 2021: 97 For SDG&E and SoCalGas plans, the effects of the assumptions on earnings are expected to be recovered in rates and therefore are offset in regulatory accounts. We provide details of our pension and other postretirement benefit plans in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ASSET RETIREMENT OBLIGATIONS Sempra, SDG&E SDG&E’s legal AROs related to the decommissioning of SONGS are estimated based on a site-specific study performed no less than every three years. The estimate of the obligations includes: ▪ estimated decommissioning costs, including labor, equipment, material and other disposal costs ▪ inflation adjustment applied to estimated cash flows ▪ discount rate based on a credit-adjusted risk-free rate ▪ actual decommissioning costs, progress to date and expected duration of decommissioning activities SDG&E’s nuclear decommissioning expenses are subject to rate recovery and, therefore, rate-making accounting treatment is applied to SDG&E’s nuclear decommissioning activities. SDG&E recognizes a regulatory asset, or liability, to the extent that its SONGS ARO exceeds, or is less than, the amount collected from customers and the amount earned in SDG&E’s NDT. SDG&E’s ARO related to the decommissioning of SONGS was $568 million as of December 31, 2021, based on the decommissioning cost study prepared in 2020. Changes in the estimated costs, execution strategy or timing of decommissioning, or in the assumptions and judgments by management underlying these estimates, could cause material revisions to the estimated total cost to decommission this facility, which could have a material effect on the recorded liability. The following table illustrates the increase to SDG&E’s and Sempra’s ARO liability if the cost escalation rate was adjusted while leaving all other assumptions constant: The increase in the ARO liability driven by an increase in the cost escalation rate would result in a decrease in the regulatory liability for recoveries in excess of ARO liabilities. We provide additional detail in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS Sempra Whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset’s carrying amount may not be recoverable, we consider if the estimated future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the asset. If so, we estimate the fair value of the asset to determine the extent to which carrying value exceeds fair value. For such an estimate, we may consider data from multiple valuation methods, including data from market participants. We exercise judgment to estimate the future cash flows and the useful life of a long-lived asset and to determine our intent to use the asset. Our intent to use or dispose of a long-lived asset is subject to re-evaluation and can change over time. If an impairment test is required, the fair value of a long-lived asset can vary if differing estimates and assumptions are used in the valuation techniques applied as indicated by changing market or other conditions. Critical assumptions that affect our estimates of fair value may include: 98 ▪ consideration of market transactions ▪ future cash flows ▪ the appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate, including the impacts of country risk and entity risk We discuss impairment of long-lived assets in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF GOODWILL Sempra When determining if goodwill is impaired, the fair value of the reporting unit can vary if differing estimates and assumptions are used in the valuation techniques applied as indicated by changing market or other conditions. As a result, recognizing a goodwill impairment may or may not be required. When we perform the quantitative goodwill impairment test, we exercise judgment to develop estimates of the fair value of the reporting unit and compare that to its carrying value. Our fair value estimates are developed from the perspective of a knowledgeable market participant. We consider observable transactions in the marketplace for similar investments, if available, as well as an income-based approach such as a discounted cash flow analysis. A discounted cash flow analysis may be based directly on anticipated future revenues and expenses and may be performed based on free cash flows generated within the reporting unit. Critical assumptions that affect our estimates of fair value may include: ▪ consideration of market transactions ▪ future cash flows ▪ projected revenue and expense growth rates ▪ the appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate, including the impacts of country risk and entity risk In 2021 and 2020, we performed a quantitative goodwill impairment test and determined that the estimated fair values of our reporting units in Mexico to which goodwill was allocated was substantially above their carrying value for each year as of October 1, our goodwill impairment testing date. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS We discuss the recent accounting pronouncements that have had or may have a significant effect on our financial statements and/or disclosures in Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.