********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

In addition to information discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following factors, as well as additional factors not presently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial, which could materially affect our business, liquidity, financial condition, and/or results of operations in future periods. The following factors are organized under relevant headings; however, they may be relevant to other headings as well. Operational Risks Supply of quality water, agricultural, and other raw materials, certain raw and packaging materials purchased under supply contracts; supply chain disruptions and inflation; limited group of glass bottle suppliers The quality and quantity of water available for use is important to the supply of our agricultural raw materials and our ability to operate our business. Water is a limited resource in many parts of the world. If climate patterns change and droughts continue or become more severe or other restrictions on currently available water resources are imposed, there may be a scarcity of water or poor water quality which may affect our and our suppliers’ operations, increase production costs, or impose capacity constraints. We are dependent on sufficient amounts of quality water for operation of our breweries, wineries, and distilleries, as well as to irrigate our vineyards and conduct our other operations. The suppliers of the agricultural raw materials we purchase are also dependent upon sufficient supplies of quality water for their vineyards and fields. In addition, water purification and waste treatment infrastructure limitations could increase costs or constrain operations at our production facilities and vineyards. A substantial reduction in water supplies could result in material losses of grape crops and vines or other crops, such as corn, barley, or hops, which could lead to a shortage of our product supply. We have substantial brewery operations in Mexico and substantial wine operations in the U.S. (primarily in California), New Zealand, and Italy as well as brewery and distillery operations in the U.S. Although certain areas in California have recently experienced flooding, the state has endured and may continue to experience prolonged drought conditions which have resulted in the imposition of certain restrictions on water usage. If these conditions or restrictions persist and/or increase in severity, it could have an adverse effect upon those operations. Our current Mexican breweries are each, and the Veracruz Brewery will be, sourced from a single water supply originating from separate and distinct aquifers. The sources of water, methods of water delivery, water quality, or water requirements to support our ongoing requirements may change materially in the future. We may incur additional expenses for improving water delivery, quality, and efficiency as well as for securing additional water sources. Our breweries, the Glass Plant, our wineries, and our distilleries use a large volume of agricultural and other raw materials to produce our products. These include corn starch and sugars, malt, hops, fruits, yeast, and water for our breweries; soda ash and silica sand for the Glass Plant; grapes and water for our wineries; and grain and water for our distilleries. Our breweries, wineries, and distilleries all use large amounts of various packaging materials, including glass, aluminum, cardboard, and other paper products. Our production facilities also use electricity, natural gas, and diesel fuel in addition to renewable energy sources in their operations. Certain raw materials and packaging materials are purchased under contracts of varying maturities. The supply, on-time availability, and price of raw, packaging, and other materials, energy, and other commodities have been and may continue to be affected by many factors beyond our control, including economic factors, supply chain disruptions, inflationary pressures, market demand, global geopolitical events and military conflicts, droughts, storms, weather events, or natural or man-made disasters, plant diseases, and theft. Our breweries, wineries, and distilleries are also dependent upon an adequate supply of glass bottles. At times, we have experienced glass bottle purchasing shortages, particularly for brown glass used for certain of our Mexican beer brands. Glass bottle costs are one of our largest components of cost of product sold. The Glass Plant produces a majority of the total annual glass bottle supply for our Mexican beer brands, and we have a small number of other suppliers of glass bottles for our Mexican beer brands. Meanwhile, we have two aluminum can suppliers that provide all of our total annual requirements for our Mexican beer brands, with one of those suppliers providing a majority of such aluminum can requirements. In the U.S., glass bottles have only a small number of producers. Currently, one producer supplies a majority of our glass container requirements for our U.S. wine and spirits operations. To the extent any of the foregoing factors impact our business or operations, including by (i) increasing the costs of our products and we are unable or choose not to pass along such rising costs to consumers through increased selling prices, (ii) leading to a shortage of our product supply or inventory levels, or (iii) requiring unplanned diversions of funds, resources, and talent to address such factors, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition, and/or results of operations. Reliance upon complex information systems and third-party global networks; cybersecurity; AI We depend on IT to enable us to operate efficiently and interface with customers and suppliers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and effect accurate and timely governmental reporting. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, including our global enterprise resource planning system, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, increased costs, loss of customers, business disruptions, loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, penalties associated with the failure to timely file governmental reports, and/or other difficulties. Many groups on a worldwide basis have experienced increases in electronic security breaches, cyberattacks, and other hacking activities such as denial of service, malware, and ransomware, and there is the possibility of retaliatory cyberattacks, including by state-sponsored organizations. As with all large IT systems, we have been a target of cyberattackers and other hacking activities and our systems could be penetrated by increasingly sophisticated parties (including through the use of emerging AI technologies) intent on extracting confidential or proprietary information, corrupting our information, disrupting our business processes, engaging in the unauthorized use of strategic information about us or our employees, customers, or consumers, or demanding monetary payment. Such unauthorized access could disrupt our operations and result in various costs and adverse consequences, including the loss of assets or revenues, litigation, regulatory actions, remediation costs, increased cybersecurity protection costs, damage to our reputation, harm to our employees, or the failure by us to retain or attract customers following such an event. We have outsourced various functions to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future. We rely on such third-parties to provide services on a timely and effective basis, but we do not ultimately control their performance. In addition, our distributors, wholesalers, suppliers, joint venture partners, and other external business partners utilize their own IT systems that are subject to similar risks to us as described above. Their failure to perform as expected or as required by contract, or additional cyberattacks on them that disrupts their systems, could result in significant disruptions and costs to our operations or, in the case of third-party service providers, a penetration of our systems. The recent proliferation and rapid evolution of AI technologies, including generative AI, has resulted in new challenges, including business, regulatory, and ethical considerations, and may intensify the risk of cyberattackers using such technologies to enhance their capabilities. We have implemented a governance framework that includes policies and processes to address the use of AI technologies, primarily focused on generative AI, by our employees and third-party service providers. Nevertheless, our employees and third-party service providers may not follow our governance framework, including if such providers incorporate AI technologies into their products or systems without disclosing this use to us. This may create risks in our ability to address existing or rapidly developing regulatory or industry standards related to AI technologies. To the extent any of the foregoing factors result in significant disruptions and costs to our operations, compromise confidential or sensitive information, imperil our intellectual property, result in harm to our reputation and the public perception of the effectiveness of our IT systems and cybersecurity measures, and/or reduce the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition, and/or results of operations. Economic and other uncertainties associated with our international operations We have production facilities in the U.S., Mexico, New Zealand, and Italy and employees in various countries, and our products are sold in numerous countries. The countries in which we operate impose duties, excise taxes, and/or other taxes on beverage alcohol products, and/or on certain raw materials used to produce our beverage alcohol products, in varying amounts. Governmental bodies may propose changes to international trade agreements, treaties, tariffs, taxes, and other government rules and regulations including but not limited to environmental treaties and regulations. Significant increases in import and excise duties or other taxes on or impacting beverage alcohol products as well as any tariffs, particularly on imports from Mexico and any retaliatory tariffs imposed by the Mexican government, could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition, and/or results of operations. Meanwhile, escalating geopolitical tensions, have resulted and may continue to result in sanctions, tariffs, and import-export restrictions. These activities, when combined with any retaliatory actions that may be taken by other countries could cause further inflationary pressures and economic and supply chain disruptions (including impacts on prices and supply of certain commodities, such as aluminum, corn, crude oil, natural gas, and steel). In addition, governmental agencies extensively regulate the beverage alcohol products industry concerning such matters as licensing, warehousing, trade and pricing practices, permitted and required labeling, advertising, and relations with wholesalers and retailers. Certain regulations also require warning labels and signage. We may be subject to new or revised regulations, increased licensing fees, requirements, or taxes, or regulatory enforcement actions. Additionally, various jurisdictions may seek to adopt significant additional product labeling or warning requirements, limitations, or guidelines on the marketing or sale of our products because of what our products contain or allegations that our products cause adverse health effects. If these types of requirements become applicable to one or more of our major products under current or future laws or regulations, they may inhibit sales of such products or increase our costs. These uncertainties and changes, as well as the decisions, policies, and economic strength of our suppliers and distributors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition, and/or results of operations. Dependence on limited facilities for production of our Mexican beer brands; facility expansion, optimization, and construction activities We are dependent on our current Mexican breweries to fulfill our Mexican beer brands’ production requirements, both now as well as for the near-term. Expansion, optimization, and/or construction activities continue at our breweries in Mexico. These are multi-billion-dollar activities with risks of completion delays, cost overruns, and asset impairments, such as the prior impairment of certain long-lived assets at the canceled Mexicali Brewery. We may not achieve the intended financial and operational benefits of these investments, including if we develop excess capacity that outpaces demand for our Mexican beer brands. We are pursuing the sale of the remaining assets at the Mexicali Brewery after exploring various options; however, we may not be successful in completing any such sale or obtaining other forms of recovery. Expansion and optimization of current production facilities and construction of new production facilities are subject to various regulatory and developmental risks, including but not limited to: (i) our ability to obtain timely certificate authorizations, necessary approvals and permits from regulatory agencies at all or on terms that are acceptable to us; (ii) potential changes in federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including environmental requirements, that prevent a project from proceeding or increase the anticipated cost of the project; (iii) our inability to acquire rights-of-way or land or water rights on a timely basis on terms that are acceptable to us; or (iv) our inability to acquire the necessary energy supplies, including electricity, natural gas, and diesel fuel. Any of these or other unanticipated events could halt or delay the expansion, optimization, or construction of our production facilities. We may not be able to satisfy our product supply requirements for our Mexican beer brands in the event of (i) a significant disruption or the partial or total destruction of the current Mexican breweries or the Glass Plant, (ii) difficulty shipping raw materials and product into, within, or out of the U.S. or Mexico, including in the event of rail shipping disruptions with our major provider in each country, or (iii) a temporary inability to produce our product due to closure or lower production levels of one or more of our current Mexican breweries. A prolonged closure or restriction of the border between the U.S. and Mexico, particularly at key product and supply crossing points, could result in temporary or longer-term disruptions of sales, consumption, and trade patterns, supply chains, production processes, and/or operations. Also, if the contemplated expansion, optimization, and/or construction activities at our breweries in Mexico are abandoned or not otherwise completed by their targeted completion dates, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of our Mexican beer to satisfy our needs in the future. Under such circumstances, we may be unable to obtain our Mexican beer at a reasonable price from another source, if at all. A significant disruption at our current Mexican breweries, or the Glass Plant, even on a short-term basis, could impair our ability to produce and ship products to market on a timely basis. Alternative facilities with sufficient capacity or capabilities may not readily be available, may cost substantially more, or may take a significant time to start production, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our product supply, business, liquidity, financial condition, and/or results of operations. Operational disruptions or catastrophic loss to breweries, wineries, other production facilities, or distribution systems All of our Mexican beer products are produced at our current Mexican breweries. Many of the workers at these breweries are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The Glass Plant produces a majority of the total annual glass bottle supply for our Mexican beer brands. Several of our vineyards and production and distribution facilities, including certain California and Oregon wineries, are in areas prone to seismic activity. Additionally, we have various vineyards and wineries in California and Oregon which have experienced wildfires, landslides, and/or severe winter storms. If any of these or other of our properties and production facilities were to experience a significant operational disruption or catastrophic loss, it could delay or disrupt production, shipments, and sales, and result in potentially significant expenses to repair or replace these properties or find suitable alternative providers. Also, our production facilities are asset intensive. As our operations are concentrated in a limited number of production and distribution facilities, we are more likely to experience a significant operational disruption or catastrophic loss in any one location from acts of war or terrorism, natural or man-made disasters, public health crises, labor strikes or other labor activities, cyberattacks and other attempts to penetrate our or our third-party service providers’ IT systems or the IT used by our non-production employees who work remotely, or unavailability of raw or packaging materials. We may be impacted by increases in global energy prices or reduced supply, particularly for crude oil and natural gas, including as a result of geopolitical events and military conflicts. If a significant operational disruption or catastrophic loss were to occur, we could breach agreements, our reputation could be harmed, and our business, liquidity, financial condition, and/or results of operations could be adversely affected by, among other items, higher maintenance charges, unexpected capital spending, or product supply constraints. Our insurance policies do not cover certain types of catastrophes and may not cover certain events such as pandemics. Economic conditions and uncertainties in global markets may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain property damage and business interruption insurance. If our insurance coverage is adversely affected, or to the extent we have elected to self-insure, we may be at greater risk that we may experience an adverse impact to our business, liquidity, financial condition, and/or results of operations. Climate change; ESG regulatory compliance; failure to meet emissions, stewardship, and other ESG targets Our business depends upon agricultural activity and natural and human capital resources. There has been much public discussion related to concerns that GHGs may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns, and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. Severe weather events and natural disasters, such as our experiences with drought, flooding, and/or wildfires in California and Oregon, severe winter storms in California, Texas, or Mexico, or late frosts or flooding in New Zealand, and climate change may negatively affect agricultural productivity in the regions from which we source our various agricultural raw materials or the energy powering our production facilities. Decreased availability of our raw materials may increase our cost of product sold. Severe weather events and natural disasters or changes in their frequency or intensity can also impact product quality; disrupt our supply chains, which may affect production operations, insurance cost and coverage, and delivery of our products to wholesalers, retailers, and consumers; and negatively affect the ability of consumers to purchase our products. The landscape related to ESG regulation, compliance, and reporting is constantly evolving, including expanding in scope and complexity. For example, the SEC and the European Commission have promulgated final rules that would require significantly increased disclosures related to climate change, although the SEC has issued an order to stay the rules pending the completion of judicial review of multiple petitions challenging the rules. We may experience significant future increases in the costs associated with regulatory compliance for ESG matters, including fees, licenses, personnel, consultants, reporting, and the cost of capital improvements for our operating facilities to meet environmental regulatory requirements, as well as to address other regulations, standards, frameworks, and ratings from various governmental entities and other stakeholders or activist campaigns. We have disclosed various ESG-related targets, including on restoration of water withdrawals, Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions, enhancing social equity within our industry and communities, waste reduction, and circular packaging, and we may disclose new or updated ESG-related targets in the future. The achievement of such targets along with our broader value chain engagement efforts have required and will continue to require us and in some cases third parties with which we do business, such as our suppliers, to make investments and allocate resources. In addition, we may be party to various environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of our business or relating to historical activities of businesses we acquire. Due to regulatory complexities, governmental or contractual requirements, uncertainties inherent in litigation, and the risk of unidentified contaminants at our current and former properties, the potential exists for remediation, liability, indemnification, and other costs to differ materially from the costs that we have estimated. We may also incur costs associated with environmental compliance arising from events we cannot control, such as natural disasters. We may not allot sufficient resources to attain, may not ultimately achieve, and/or may be subject to proceedings or litigation related to our ESG targets, and our costs in relation to any of the foregoing matters may exceed our projections, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, liquidity, financial condition, and/or results of operations. Reliance on wholesale distributors, major retailers, and government agencies Local market structures and distribution channels vary worldwide. Within our primary market in the U.S., we offer a range of beverage alcohol products with generally separate distribution networks utilized for our beer portfolio and our wine and spirits portfolio. In the U.S., we sell our products principally to wholesalers for resale to retail outlets and directly to government agencies. We have an exclusive arrangement with one wholesaler that generates a large portion of our branded U.S. wine and spirits net sales, and we have one wholesaler for our beer portfolio which, through multiple entities, represents one-quarter of our consolidated net sales. Wholesalers and retailers of our products offer directly competing products that vie for retail shelf space, promotional support, and consumer purchases, and wholesalers or retailers may give higher priority to products of our competitors. The replacement or poor performance of our major wholesalers, retailers, or government agencies could result in temporary or longer-term sales disruptions or could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition, and/or results of operations. Contamination and degradation of product quality from diseases, pests, and weather and other conditions Contamination, whether arising accidentally or through deliberate third-party action, or other events that harm the integrity or consumer support for our brands, could adversely affect sales. Various diseases, pests, fungi, viruses, drought, frosts, wildfires, and certain other weather conditions or the effects of climate conditions, such as smoke taint sustained during the 2020 U.S. West Coast wildfires or the late frost experienced in New Zealand in calendar 2021, could affect the quality and quantity of barley, hops, grapes, and other agricultural raw materials available and decrease the supply and quality of our products. Similarly, power disruptions, such as the outage at our Nava Brewery due to severe winter weather events in early 2021, could adversely impact our production processes and the quality of our products. We or our suppliers of agricultural raw materials may not succeed in preventing contamination in existing or future vineyards, fields, or production facilities. Future government restrictions regarding the use of certain materials used in growing grapes or other agricultural raw materials may increase vineyard costs and/or reduce production of grapes or other crops. It is also possible that a supplier may not provide materials or product components which meet our required standards or may falsify documentation associated with the fulfillment of those requirements. Product contamination or tampering or the failure to maintain our standards for product quality, safety, and integrity, including with respect to raw materials, naturally occurring compounds, packaging materials, or product components obtained from suppliers, may also reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. Contaminants or other defects in raw materials, packaging materials, or product components purchased from third parties and used in the production of our beer, wine, or spirits products, or defects in the fermentation or distillation process could lead to low beverage quality as well as illness among, or injury to, consumers of our products and may result in reduced sales of the affected brand or all our brands. If any of our products become unsafe or unfit for consumption, are misbranded, or cause injury, we may have to engage in additional product recalls and/or be subject to liability and incur additional costs. Widespread or multiple product recalls or a significant product liability judgment or regulatory action could cause our products to be unavailable for a period, which could reduce consumer demand and brand equity and result in reputational harm. Outbreaks of communicable infections or diseases, pandemics, or other widespread public health crises in the markets in which our consumers or employees live and/or in which we or our distributors, retailers, and suppliers operate Communicable disease outbreaks, including the COVID-19 pandemic, and other widespread public health crises have resulted and in the future could result in disruptions and damage to our business caused by potential negative consumer purchasing behavior and reduced consumption as well as disruption to our supply chains, production processes, and operations. This includes containment actions that restrict consumer purchasing occasions, including from the inability to leave home or otherwise shop in a normal manner, cancellations of public events, venue closures, or capacity restrictions, as well as reductions in consumer discretionary income due to reduced or limited work and layoffs. Supply disruption may result from restrictions on the ability of employees and others in the supply chain to travel and work, including from quarantines, individual illnesses, or border closures imposed by governments to deter the spread of communicable infections or diseases; determinations by us or our suppliers or distributors to temporarily suspend operations in affected areas; or other actions which restrict or otherwise negatively impact our ability to produce, package, and ship our products, our distributors’ ability to distribute our products, or our suppliers’ ability to provide us with raw, packaging, and other materials. Channels of entry may be closed or operate at reduced capacity, or transportation of product within a region or country may be limited. Our operations and the operations of our suppliers may become less efficient or otherwise be negatively impacted if our or their executive management or other key operational personnel are unable to work or if a significant percentage of our workforce is unable to work at all or at their normal production or other facility. Another widespread health crisis or pandemic conditions could negatively affect the economies and financial markets of many countries resulting in a global economic downturn which could negatively impact demand for our products and our ability to borrow money. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition, and/or results of operations. Labor activities could increase our costs If our employees were to engage in a labor strike, other work stoppage, or other labor activities, we could experience an operational disruption, incur higher ongoing labor costs, and/or suffer reputational harm, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition, and/or results of operations. Strategic Risks Potential decline in the consumption of products we sell; dependence on sales of our Mexican beer brands Our business depends upon consumers’ consumption of our beer, wine, and spirits brands, and sales of our Mexican beer brands in the U.S. are a significant portion of our business. Consumer preferences, behaviors, perception, and sentiment may shift due to a variety of factors, including changes in taste preferences and leisure, dining, and beverage purchasing and consumption patterns, trends involving demographics and ESG matters, changing market dynamics, including consumer-led premiumization and betterment trends, pricing considerations, perceived value, branding and marketing, and reputational considerations. Further, a limited or general decline in consumption in one or more of our product categories could occur in the future due to a variety of factors, including: • a general decline in economic or geopolitical conditions; • inflation, including the impact of reduced discretionary income of consumers available to purchase our products and increased commodities and other costs; • concern about the health consequences of consuming beverage alcohol products, including betterment trends, and about drinking and driving or other safety considerations; • reduced consumption of beverage alcohol products, including as a result of stricter laws relating to consumption or driving while under the influence of alcohol or resulting from weight loss regimens and pharmaceuticals, including GLP-1 drugs; • increased activity from governmental entities, anti-alcohol groups, or other bodies, such as the World Health Organization, advocating measures or guidelines designed to reduce the consumption of beverage alcohol products or require more stringent labeling; • increased excise or other taxes on beverage alcohol products and possible restrictions on beverage alcohol advertising and marketing; • increased import and excise duties, other taxes, or tariffs on or impacting beverage alcohol products; • increased regulation restricting the purchase or consumption of beverage alcohol products; • the inability of our wine and spirits business to become a global, omni-channel competitor; and • wars, disease outbreaks or pandemics, quarantines, weather, and natural or man-made disasters. If these or any other factors cause a decline in the growth rate, amount, or profitability of our sales of the Mexican beer brands in the U.S. or any material shift in consumer preferences, behaviors, perception, and sentiment in our major markets away from our beer, wine, and spirits brands, and our Mexican beer brands in particular, or from the categories in which they compete, it could adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial condition, and/or results of operations. Acquisition, divestiture, investment, and NPD strategies and activities From time to time, we acquire businesses, assets, or securities of companies that we believe will provide a strategic fit with our business. We integrate acquired businesses with our existing operations; our overall internal control over financial reporting processes; and our financial, operations, and information systems. If the financial performance of our business, as supplemented by the assets and businesses acquired, does not meet our expectations, it may make it more difficult for us to service our debt obligations and our results of operations may fail to meet market expectations. We may not effectively assimilate the business or product offerings of acquired companies into our business or within the anticipated costs or timeframes, retain key customers and suppliers or key employees of acquired businesses, or successfully implement our business plan for the combined business. In addition, our final determinations and appraisals of the estimated fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in our acquisitions may vary materially from earlier estimates and we may fail to fully realize anticipated cost savings, growth opportunities, or other potential synergies. The fair value of acquired businesses or investments may not remain constant. We also divest businesses, assets, or securities of companies from time to time, including those that we believe no longer provide a strategic fit with our business. We may provide various indemnifications in connection with divestitures of businesses or assets. Divestitures of portions of our business may also result in costs stranded in our remaining business. Delays in developing or implementing plans to address such costs could delay or prevent the accomplishment of our financial objectives. The amount of contingent consideration, if any, received in divestitures may also vary based on various factors including actual future brand performance. We have also acquired or retained ownership interests in companies which we do not control, such as our joint venture to operate the Glass Plant, our interest in Canopy, and investments made through our corporate venture capital function, and we have acquired control of companies which we do not wholly own, such as our majority ownership interest in Nelson’s Green Brier Distillery, LLC. Our joint venture partners or the other parties that hold the remaining ownership interests in companies which we do not control may at any time have economic, business, or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or the goals of the joint ventures or those companies. Our joint venture arrangements and the arrangements through which we acquired or hold our other equity or membership interests may require us to, among other matters, pay certain costs, make capital investments, fulfill alone our joint venture partners’ obligations, or purchase other parties’ interests. The entities in which we have an interest may be subject to litigation which may have an adverse impact on their ability to do business or under which they may incur costs and expenses which could have a material adverse impact on their operations or financial condition which, in turn, could negatively impact the value of our investment. In addition, our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to develop new products. The launch and ongoing success of NPDs are inherently uncertain, especially with respect to consumer appeal and our ability to deliver optimized marketing in an evolving and dynamic media landscape, including through emerging digital technologies such as AI and data analytics. A new product launch can give rise to a variety of costs. An unsuccessful launch, among other things, can affect consumer perception of existing brands and our reputation. Unsuccessful implementation or short-lived popularity of our product innovations has resulted and may in the future result in inventory write-offs and other costs. We may not realize the expected benefits of acquisitions, divestitures, investments, or NPDs. We have recognized impairment losses and/or write-offs in connection with acquired and divested businesses and investments, and we may do so again in the future. Furthermore, our acquisitions, investments, or joint ventures may not be profitable, our forecasts regarding acquisition, divestiture, or investment activities may not be accurate, or the internal control over financial reporting of entities which we must consolidate as a result of our investment activities but do not control or wholly own may not be as robust as our internal control over financial reporting. Our failure to adequately manage the risks associated with acquisitions, divestitures, investments, or NPDs, or the failure of an entity in which we have an equity or membership interest, could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition, and/or results of operations. Dependence upon trademarks and proprietary rights, failure to protect our intellectual property rights Our future success depends significantly on our ability to protect our current and future brands and products and to defend our intellectual property rights. We have been granted numerous trademark registrations and use certain trademarks under license covering our brands and products, and we have filed, and expect to continue to file or have filed on our behalf, trademark applications seeking to protect newly developed brands and products. We cannot be sure that trademark registrations will be issued with respect to any of such trademark applications. We could also, by omission, fail to timely renew or protect a trademark and our competitors could challenge, invalidate, or circumvent any existing or future trademarks issued to, or licensed by, us. Our subsidiaries CB Brand Strategies, LLC, Crown Imports LLC, and Compañía Cervecera de Coahuila, S. de R.L. de C.V. were named as defendants in a lawsuit originally filed in U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York on February 15, 2021, and most recently amended on March 16, 2022, by Cervecería Modelo de México, S. de R.L. de C.V. and Trademarks Grupo Modelo, S. de R.L. de C.V., captioned Cervecería Modelo de México, S. de R.L. de C.V., et al. v. CB Brand Strategies, LLC, et al. , Case No. 21 Civ. 01317-LAK (S.D.N.Y.). The plaintiffs alleged, among other things, that our sub-license of the trademarks for our Mexican beer brands should not permit us to use the Corona brand name on our Corona Hard Seltzer or the Modelo brand name on our Modelo Ranch Water. On August 5, 2022, both the plaintiffs and the defendants filed motions for summary judgment. On November 3, 2022, the court denied our motion for summary judgment. On December 13, 2022, the court denied plaintiffs’ motion for summary judgment. At a trial in March 2023, the jury returned a unanimous verdict in our favor on all counts in the plaintiffs’ complaint, and the court entered judgment dismissing the complaint on March 15, 2023. On April 12, 2023, the plaintiffs filed a motion for judgment as a matter of law or, in the alternative, for a new trial with the court, which motion was denied on April 14, 2023. On May 12, 2023, the plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit from the final judgment entered in the above-captioned case, rulings and orders incorporated in, antecedent to, or ancillary to that final judgment, and the district court’s order denying the plaintiffs’ motion for judgment as a matter of law or, in the alternative, for a new trial in that action. The appeal is captioned Cervecería Modelo de México, S. de R.L. de C.V., et al. v. CB Brand Strategies, LLC, et al. , Case No. 23-810 (2d Cir.). The plaintiffs’ principal brief was filed on August 22, 2023, which appealed the district court’s order denying the plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment, an evidentiary ruling, and the district court’s instructions to the jury. Our response brief was filed on November 21, 2023, and the plaintiffs’ reply brief was filed on December 12, 2023. Oral argument was conducted before the Second Circuit on March 12, 2024. On March 25, 2024, the Second Circuit issued an order affirming the judgment of the district court, including affirming the denial of the plaintiffs’ motion for summary judgment, affirming the district court’s evidentiary ruling, and rejecting the plaintiffs’ challenges to the district court’s instructions to the jury. While we continue to believe this lawsuit is without merit, litigation is inherently unpredictable and subject to substantial uncertainties and unfavorable developments and resolutions could occur. In addition, our cost of defending this litigation has been and could continue to be substantial. If we are not successful, we may not be able to market Corona Hard Seltzer in its current formulation under the Corona brand name or Modelo Ranch Water product in its current formulation under the Modelo brand name and we may be required to pay damage awards, each of which may have an adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and/or results of operations. We have been and may continue to be subject to other litigation related to our trademarks and intellectual property rights. A substantial adverse judgment or other unfavorable resolution of these matters or our failure to otherwise protect our intellectual property rights as well as the costs associated with such activities could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition, and/or results of operations. Damage to our reputation The success of our brands depends upon consumer perception, including having a positive image of those brands, and maintaining a good reputation is critical to selling our branded products. Our reputation could also be impacted negatively by public perception, adverse publicity (whether or not valid, such as the similarity of the name of certain of our brands or trademarks and a type of virus), negative comments or campaigns in social media, or our responses relating to, among other things: • a perceived or actual failure to maintain high ethical standards and responsible operating practices to achieve our business goals; • perceptions toward, and our performance related to, our ESG and DEI strategies, initiatives, and targets as well as associated reporting regulations, standards, frameworks, and ratings; • a perceived or actual failure to address concerns relating to the quality, safety, or integrity of our products, including from accidental or deliberate contamination or tampering; • actions we may take to enhance or safeguard our reputation and uphold our core values, including changes to our operations, sales, advertising, marketing, and new product development; • allegations that we, or persons currently or formerly associated with us, have allegedly or actually violated applicable laws or regulations, including those related to safety, employment, discrimination, harassment, whistleblowing, privacy, corporate citizenship, improper business practices, or cybersecurity, or have otherwise engaged in negatively perceived activities; • our environmental impact, including use of agricultural materials, packaging, water and energy use, and waste management; • investors, activist groups, or other stakeholders seeking to influence our business, strategies, operations, and products; • our investment in Canopy and our association with a cannabis business; or • efforts that are perceived as insufficient to promote the responsible use of alcohol or cannabis. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, maintain an effective system of internal controls, provide accurate and timely financial statement information, or protect our information systems against service interruptions, misappropriation of data, or breaches of security, could also hurt our reputation. Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence in our products for any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition, and/or results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation, competitive position, and brand equity and renew investor confidence. Competition We operate in a highly competitive industry, and our sales and profitability could be negatively affected by numerous factors including: • our inability to maintain or increase prices or develop new products; • increases in our advertising or marketing expenditures to maintain our competitive position; • our inability to adopt or effectively deploy new and emerging technologies; • new entrants in our market or categories, including from the convergence of beverage categories; • the consolidation of distributors, wholesalers, retailers, suppliers, and other beverage companies; • the decision of wholesalers, retailers, or consumers to purchase competitors’ products instead of ours; • pricing, purchasing, financing, operational, advertising, or promotional decisions made by wholesalers, state and local agencies, and retailers which affect supply of or consumer demand for our products; or • a general decline in beverage alcohol consumption due to consumer dietary preference changes or consumers substituting legalized cannabis or other similar products in lieu of beverage alcohol. Our continued success also depends on our ability to attract and retain a high-quality and diverse workforce in a competitive environment for talent and to implement our human capital priorities and initiatives. We could experience higher expenses for investment in our personnel, including due to employee turnover, continuing wage inflation, and other emerging employment trends, particularly in the U.S.; to deliver on our human capital priorities and initiatives; or for other reasons. We may be unable to increase our prices to pass along any increased costs we incur to our customers. Financial and Economic Risks Indebtedness and interest rate fluctuations We have incurred indebtedness to finance investments and acquisitions, refinance other indebtedness, fund beer operations expansion, optimization, and construction activities, pay cash dividends, and repurchase shares of our common stock. In the future, we may continue to incur additional indebtedness for any or all of these activities as well as to fund other general corporate purposes. We are exposed to risks associated with interest rate fluctuations, and we have recently experienced a rising interest rate environment. We could experience further changes in our ability to manage fluctuations in interest rates, including for our variable interest rate debt outstanding or if we need to refinance indebtedness. In addition, our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet all our debt service requirements, return value to stockholders such as through payment of dividends or repurchase of shares of our common stock, achieve our target net leverage ratio, and fund our general corporate and capital requirements. Our current and future debt service obligations and covenants could have important consequences. These consequences include, or may include, the following: • our ability to obtain financing for future working capital needs, investments, acquisitions, or other purposes may be limited; • our funds available for operations, expansions, construction, dividends or other distributions, or share repurchases may be reduced because we dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness; • our ability to conduct our business could be limited by restrictive covenants; and • our vulnerability to adverse economic conditions may be greater than less leveraged competitors and, thus, our ability to withstand competitive pressures may be limited. Additionally, any failure to meet required payments on our debt, or failure to comply with any covenants in the instruments governing our debt, could result in an event of default under the terms of those instruments and a downgrade to our credit ratings. A downgrade to our credit ratings would increase our borrowing costs and could affect our ability to issue commercial paper. Certain of our debt facilities also contain change of control provisions which, if triggered, may result in an acceleration of our obligation to repay the debt. In addition, certain of our current and future debt and derivative financial instruments have, or in the future, could have interest rates that are tied to reference rates, such as SOFR. The volatility and availability of such reference rates, including establishment of alternative reference rates, is out of our control. Changes to or the unavailability of such rates or the manner for calculation of such reference rates, could result in increases to the cost of our debt. In addition, our 2022 Credit Agreement (i) restricts repayment of the loans under the credit agreement with proceeds derived, directly or indirectly, from Canopy prior to the Specified Time, (ii) restricts the use of proceeds from the loans under our credit agreement, directly or indirectly, for any investment in, transaction with, or to fund the activities of or business with Canopy prior to the Specified Time, and (iii) provides that we will not convert any of our outstanding Exchangeable Shares for Canopy common shares or own any Canopy common shares until the Specified Time. If we do not comply with the obligations contained in our senior credit facility, our existing or future indentures, or other loan agreements, we could be in default under such debt facilities or agreements. In such an event, the holders of our debt could elect to declare as due and payable all amounts outstanding under those instruments. An event of default could also result in events of default under other debt facilities or agreements that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions, which could permit counterparties thereunder to exercise remedies. If that occurred, we might not have available funds to satisfy our repayment obligations. International operations, worldwide and regional economic trends and financial market conditions, geopolitical uncertainty, or other governmental rules and regulations Risks associated with international operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition, and/or results of operations, include: • changes in political, economic, social, and labor conditions in U.S., Mexico, and international locales, including as a result of elections, potential government shutdowns, or other events; • potential disruption from wars and military conflicts, terrorism, civil unrest, kidnapping, and drug-related, workplace, or other types of violence; • restrictions on foreign ownership and investments or on repatriation of cash earned in countries outside the U.S.; • import and export requirements and border accessibility; • protectionist trade policies, sanctions, and tariffs; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, which may reduce the U.S. dollar value of net sales, earnings, and cash flows from non-U.S. markets or increase our supply chain costs, as measured in U.S. dollars, in those markets; • a less developed and less certain legal and regulatory environment in some countries, which, among other things, can create uncertainty regarding contract enforcement, intellectual property rights, privacy obligations, real property rights, and liability issues; and • inadequate levels of compliance with applicable domestic and foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Unfavorable global or regional economic conditions, including economic slowdown or recession, instability in the banking sector, and the disruption, volatility, and tightening of credit and capital markets, as well as unemployment, tax increases, governmental spending cuts, or continuing high levels of inflation, could affect consumer spending patterns and purchases of our products. These could also create or exacerbate credit issues, cash flow issues, and other financial hardships for us and our suppliers, distributors, retailers, and consumers. The inability of suppliers, distributors, and retailers to access liquidity could impact our ability to produce and distribute our products. We could also be affected by nationalization of our international operations, unstable governments, unfamiliar or biased legal systems, intergovernmental disputes, or animus against the U.S. or products produced in Mexico. Any determination that our operations or activities did not comply with applicable U.S. or foreign laws or regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, interruptions of business, terminations of necessary licenses and permits, and other legal and equitable sanctions. Class action or other litigation, including relating to abuse or misuse of our products, product liability, marketing or sales practices including product labeling, or other matters There has been public attention directed at the beverage alcohol industry, which we believe is due to concerns related to harmful use of alcohol, including drinking and driving, underage drinking, and health consequences from the misuse of alcohol. We could be exposed to lawsuits relating to product liability or marketing or sales practices, including product labeling. With our international operations, we have been and may continue to be subject to risk of a wide variety of other legal claims and proceedings by external parties, employees, and stockholders. Litigation is inherently unpredictable and subject to substantial uncertainties and unfavorable developments and resolutions could occur. In addition, the amount of time and cost to defend ourselves could be substantial. Adverse developments in lawsuits related to such matters as well as the time and costs associated with such activities or a significant decline in the social acceptability of beverage alcohol products or for our products specifically that may result from lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition, and/or results of operations. Intangible assets, such as goodwill and trademarks We have a significant amount of intangible assets such as goodwill and trademarks and may acquire more intangible assets in the future. Intangible assets are subject to a periodic impairment evaluation under applicable accounting standards. For example, if broader industry and market conditions decline and/or our expectations of future performance as reflected in our current strategic operating plans are not fully realized, a future impairment of Wine and Spirits goodwill is reasonably possible. A significant write-down of any of our intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition, and/or results of operations. Changes to tax laws; fluctuations in our effective tax rate; accounting for tax positions; resolution of tax disputes; changes to accounting standards, elections, assertions, or policies; global minimum tax Changes to federal, state, provincial, local, or foreign tax laws, could result in increased taxes on our products, business, customers, or consumers. Various proposals to increase taxes on beverage alcohol products have been made at the federal and state levels or at other governmental bodies in recent years. Federal, state, provincial, local, or foreign governmental entities may consider increasing taxes upon beverage alcohol products as they explore available alternatives for raising funds, including to offset budget or other deficits. In addition, significant judgment is required to determine our effective tax rate and evaluate our tax positions. Our provision for income taxes includes a provision for uncertain tax positions. Fluctuations in federal, state, local, and foreign taxes, or a change to uncertain tax positions, including related interest and penalties, may impact our effective tax rate and our financial results. When tax matters arise, several years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. Unfavorable resolution of any tax matter could increase our effective tax rate and resolution of a tax issue may require the use of cash in the year of resolution. U.S. tax changes or changes in how international corporations are taxed, including changes in how existing tax laws are interpreted or enforced, or changes to accounting standards, elections, or assertions as well as our accounting policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition, and/or results of operations. For example, the OECD has introduced a framework to implement a global minimum tax rate of 15%, referred to as Pillar Two. Many jurisdictions in which we do business have started to enact laws implementing, or have draft legislation proposed for adoption to implement, Pillar Two. These changes, when enacted by the various jurisdictions in which we do business, may significantly increase our taxes in these jurisdictions. Cash dividends and share repurchases are subject to a number of uncertainties and may affect the price of our common stock Our capital allocation strategy contemplates quarterly cash dividends and periodic share repurchases under our share repurchase program. We fund our cash dividends and share repurchases through a combination of cash flow from operations, borrowings, and divestiture proceeds. However, we are not required to declare dividends or to make any share repurchases under our share repurchase program. We may discontinue, limit, suspend, delay, or increase our dividends and share repurchases at any time without prior notice. Even if not discontinued, the amount of such dividends and repurchases may be changed, and the amount, timing, and frequency of such dividends and repurchases may vary from historical practice or from our stated expectations. Decisions with respect to dividends and share repurchases are subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be based on a variety of factors. Important factors that could cause us to discontinue, limit, suspend, delay, or increase our cash dividends or share repurchases include market conditions, the price of our common stock, the nature and timing of other investment opportunities, changes in our business strategy, the terms of our financing arrangements, our outlook as to our ability to obtain financing at attractive rates, the impact on our credit ratings, changes in laws or regulations, and the availability of cash. The IRA imposes an excise tax of 1% on share repurchases, and the ongoing impact of this excise tax will be dependent on the extent of our share repurchases in future periods along with any changes to the excise tax rate and could increase our tax liability. The reduction or elimination of our cash dividend or longer suspension or elimination of our share repurchase program could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Additionally, any share repurchases may not enhance stockholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased shares of common stock, and short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program’s effectiveness. Governance Risks Sands Family Stockholder Class A Stock ownership and Board of Directors nomination rights Until November 2027 and so long as the Sands Family Stockholders, collectively, have beneficial or record ownership of at least 10% of the issued and outstanding shares of Class A Stock, our Board of Directors will, subject to the procedures and limitations set forth in the Reclassification Agreement, nominate two individuals designated by WildStar for election to our Board of Directors at any annual meeting of our stockholders at which directors are to be elected (or otherwise in connection with any action by written consent pursuant to which a majority of the Board of Directors will be elected). So long as the Sands Family Stockholders, collectively, have beneficial or record ownership of less than 10% but at least 9,239,463.1 shares of Class A Stock, as may be adjusted by any stock dividend, stock split, stock combination, or similar transaction, the Board of Directors will, subject to the procedures and limitations set forth in the Reclassification Agreement, nominate one individual designated by WildStar for election to the Board of Directors at any annual meeting of our stockholders at which directors are to be elected (or otherwise in connection with any action by written consent pursuant to which a majority of the Board of Directors will be elected). The amount of Class A Stock currently held by the Sands Family Stockholders, together with the foregoing Board of Directors nomination rights, provide the Sands Family Stockholders with significant continued influence over our decisions. The interests of the Sands Family Stockholders with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us and our other stockholders, such as future acquisitions, financings, and other corporate opportunities and attempts to acquire us, may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Certain Sands Family Stockholders have pledged shares of Class A Stock to secure various credit facilities. In the event of noncompliance with certain covenants under the credit facilities, the financial institutions to which such stock is pledged have certain remedies, including the right to sell the pledged shares subject to certain protections afforded to the borrowers and pledgors. The sale by such financial institutions of a substantial amount of the pledged shares could depress, or result in volatility in, the trading price of our Class A Stock. Choice-of-forum provision in our Amended and Restated By-laws regarding certain stockholder litigation Our Amended and Restated By-laws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, (i) the Court of Chancery of Delaware (or if such court lacks subject matter jurisdiction, the federal district court of Delaware) will be, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our current or former directors, officers, or stockholders to us or our stockholders; any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL, our Amended and Restated Charter, or our Amended and Restated By-laws, or as to which the DGCL confers jurisdiction on the Court of Chancery of Delaware; or any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine, and (ii) the federal district courts of the U.S. will, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be the sole and exclusive forum for any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act. To the fullest extent permitted by law, this choice-of-forum provision will apply to state and federal law claims, including claims under the federal securities laws (including the Securities Act and the Exchange Act), although our stockholders will not be deemed to have waived our compliance with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. This choice-of-forum provision may increase costs for a stockholder pursuing any such claim, discourage claims, or limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such stockholder finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, other stockholders, or other employees which may discourage such lawsuits even though an action, if successful, might benefit our stockholders. In addition, the courts located in Delaware may reach different judgments or results than would other courts, including courts where a stockholder would otherwise choose to bring the action, and such judgments or results may be more favorable to us than to our stockholders. If a court were to find this choice-of-forum provision inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions which could adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial condition, and/or results of operations. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring or holding any interest in shares of our capital stock will be deemed to have notice of and consented to the choice-of-forum provision described above.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Introduction We have elected to omit discussion on the earliest of the three years covered by the consolidated financial statements presented. Refer to Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” located in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2023, filed on April 20, 2023, for reference to discussion of the fiscal year ended February 28, 2022, the earliest of the three fiscal years presented. This MD&A, which should be read in conjunction with our Financial Statements, is organized as follows: Overview. This section provides a general description of our business, which we believe is important in understanding the results of our operations, financial condition, and potential future trends. Strategy . This section provides a description of our strategy and a discussion of a recent development, and significant divestitures, acquisitions, and investments. Results of operations. This section provides an analysis of our results of operations presented on a business segment basis. In addition, a brief description of significant transactions and other items that affect the comparability of the results is provided. Liquidity and capital resources. This section provides an analysis of our cash flows, outstanding debt, liquidity position, and commitments. Included in the analysis of outstanding debt is a discussion of the financial capacity available to fund our ongoing operations and future commitments, as well as a discussion of other financing arrangements. Critical accounting policies and estimates. This section identifies accounting policies that are considered important to our results of operations and financial condition, require significant judgment, and involve significant management estimates. Our significant accounting policies, including those considered to be critical accounting policies, are summarized in Note 1. Overview Effective May 31, 2023, we changed o ur internal management financial reporting to consist of two business divisions: (i) Beer and (ii) Wine and Spirits and we now report our operating results in three segments: (i) Beer, (ii) Wine and Spirits, and (iii) Corporate Operations and Other following the removal of the Canopy operating segment. For additional information, refer to Note 22. In the Beer segment, our portfolio consists of high-end imported beer brands and ABAs. We have an exclusive perpetual brand license to produce our Mexican beer portfolio and to import, market, and sell such portfolio in the U.S. In the Wine and Spirits segment, we sell a portfolio that includes higher-end wine brands complemented by certain higher-end spirits brands. Amounts included in the Corporate Operations and Other segment consist of costs of corporate development, corporate finance, corporate strategy, executive management, growth, human resources, internal audit, investor relations, IT, legal, and public relations, as well as our Canopy investment and investments made through our corporate venture capital function . All costs included in the Corporate Operations and Other segment are general costs that are applicable to the consolidated group and are, therefore, not allocated to the other reportable segments. All costs reported within the Corporate Operations and Other segment are not included in our CODM’s evaluation of the operating income (loss) performance of the other reportable segments. The business segments reflect how our operations are managed, how resources are allocated, how operating performance is evaluated by senior management, and the structure of our internal financial reporting. Strategy Our business strategy for the Beer segment focuses on upholding our leadership position in the U.S. beer market, including the high-end segment, and continuing to grow our high-end imported beer brands through maintenance of leading margins, enhancements to our results of operations and operating cash flow, and exploring new avenues for growth. This includes continued focus on growing our beer portfolio in the U.S. through expanding distribution for key brands, including within the 3-tier eCommerce channel, as well as investing in the next increment of modular capacity additions required to sustain our momentum. We continue to focus on consumer-led innovation by creating new line extensions behind celebrated, trusted brands and package formats, as well as new to world brands, that are intended to meet emerging needs. Expansion, optimization, and/or construction activities continue under our Mexico Beer Projects to align with our anticipated future growth expectations, and we expect to spend approximately $3 billion over Fiscal 2025 through Fiscal 2028 on these activities. See “Capital expenditures” below. Additionally, we are pursuing the sale of the remaining assets at the canceled Mexicali Brewery after exploring various options; however, we may not be successful in completing any such sale or obtaining other forms of recovery. Our business strategy for the Wine and Spirits segment continues to focus on higher-end brands, improving margins, and creating operating efficiencies. We have reshaped our portfolio primarily through an enhanced focus on higher-margin, higher-growth wine and spirits brands. Our business is organized into two distinct commercial teams, one focused on our fine wine and craft spirits brands and the other focused on our mainstream and premium brands. While each team has its own distinct strategy, both remain aligned to the goal of accelerating performance by growing organic net sales and expanding margins. In addition, we are advancing our aim to become a global, omni-channel competitor in line with consumer preferences. Our business continues to progressively expand into DTC channels (including hospitality), 3-tier eCommerce, and international markets, while remaining a major supplier in U.S. 3-tier brick-and-mortar distribution. In markets where it is feasible, we entered into a contractual arrangement with Southern Glazer’s Wine and Spirits to consolidate our U.S. distribution in order to obtain dedicated distributor selling resources which focus on our U.S. wine and spirits portfolio to drive organic growth. This distributor currently represents about 70% of our branded wine and spirits volume in the U.S. Marketing, sales, and distribution of our products are primarily managed on a geographic basis allowing us to leverage leading market positions. In addition, market dynamics and consumer trends vary across each of our markets. Within our primary market in the U.S., we offer a range of beverage alcohol products across the imported beer, ABA, and branded wine and spirits categories, with generally separate distribution networks utilized for (i) our beer portfolio and (ii) our wine and spirits portfolio. The environment for our products is competitive in each of our markets. We remain committed to our long-term financial model of: growing sales, expanding margins, and increasing cash flow in order to achieve earnings per share growth as well as our target net leverage ratio and dividend payout ratio; investing to support the growth of our business; and delivering additional returns to stockholders through periodic share repurchases. Our results of operations and financial condition have been affected by inflation, changing prices, reductions in discretionary income of consumers available to purchase our products, and shifting consumer behaviors, as well as other unfavorable global and regional economic conditions, global supply chain disruptions and constraints, and geopolitical events. We expect some or all of these impacts to continue into Fiscal 2025 which could have a material impact on our results of operations. We intend to continue to monitor the inflationary environment and the impact on the consumer when we consider passing along rising costs through further selling price increases, subject to normal competitive conditions. In addition, we are continuing our commodity and foreign exchange hedging programs while also seeking to identify additional cost savings initiatives. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to fully mitigate rising costs through increased selling prices and/or cost savings initiatives. Furthermore, to the extent climate-related severe weather events, such as droughts, floods, wildfires, extreme heat, and/or late frosts, continue to occur or accelerate in future periods, it could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Recent Development Conversion of Canopy common stock ownership and exchange of investment into Exchangeable Shares In April 2024, the Canopy Amendment was approved by Canopy’s shareholders. We subsequently elected to convert our 17.1 million Canopy common shares into Exchangeable Shares on a one-for-one basis. Additionally, we exchanged our 2023 Canopy Promissory Note for 9.1 million Exchangeable Shares and forgave all accrued but unpaid interest together with the remaining principal amount of the note. For additional information, refer to Note 10. Divestitures, acquisitions, and investments Beer segment Craft Beer Divestitures In June 2023, we completed the Craft Beer Divestitures. Accordingly, our consolidated results of operations include the results of operations of such craft beer brands through the dates of these divestitures. The Craft Beer Divestitures are consistent with our strategic focus on continuing to grow our high-end imported beer brands through maintenance of leading margins and enhancements to our results of operations. Daleville Facility In May 2023, we sold the Daleville Facility in connection with our decision to exit the craft beer business. Wine and Spirits segment Wine Divestiture In October 2022, we sold certain of our mainstream and premium wine brands and related inventory. Accordingly, our consolidated results of operations include the results of operations of such mainstream and premium wine brands through the date of divestiture. We received cash proceeds of $96.7 million from the Wine Divestiture that were utilized primarily to reduce outstanding borrowings. We recognized a $15.0 million net gain on the sale of business for Fiscal 2023. This gain was included in selling, general, and administrative expenses within our consolidated results. Austin Cocktails acquisition In April 2022, we acquired the remaining 73% ownership interest in Austin Cocktails, which included a portfolio of small batch, RTD cocktails. This transaction primarily included the acquisition of goodwill and a trademark. The results of operations of Austin Cocktails are reported in the Wine and Spirits segment and have been included in our consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition. Lingua Franca acquisition In March 2022, we acquired the Lingua Franca business, including a collection of Oregon-based luxury wines, a vineyard, and a production facility. This transaction also included the acquisition of a trademark and inventory. The results of operations of Lingua Franca are reported in the Wine and Spirits segment and have been included in our consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition. Our Wine and Spirits segment divestiture and acquisitions support our strategic focus on consumer-led premiumization trends and meeting the evolving needs of our consumers. Corporate Operations and Other segment Corporate ventures As of August 31, 2023, we evaluated certain equity method investments, made through our corporate venture capital function, and determined there were other-than-temporary impairments due to business underperformance. Investments with a carrying value of $14.9 million were written down to an estimated fair value of $2.6 million, resulting in an impairment of $12.3 million. This loss from impairment was included in income (loss) from unconsolidated investments within our consolidated results for Fiscal 2024. In October 2023, we exited one of these equity method investments in exchange for a note receivable. Canopy investment We have an investment in Canopy, a North American cannabis and CPG company providing medical and adult-use cannabis products, which expands our portfolio into adjacent categories. Canopy Equity Method Investment — We evaluated the Canopy Equity Method Investment as of May 31, 2023, and determined there was an other-than-temporary impairment. Our conclusion was based primarily on several contributing factors, including: (i) the fair value being less than the carrying value and the uncertainty surrounding Canopy’s stock price recovering in the near-term, (ii) Canopy recorded significant costs in its fourth quarter of fiscal 2023 results designed to align its Canadian cannabis operations and resources in response to continued unfavorable market trends, (iii) the substantial doubt about Canopy’s ability to continue as a going concern, as disclosed by Canopy, and (iv) Canopy’s identification of material misstatements in certain of its previously reported financial results related to sales in its BioSteel reporting unit that were accounted for incorrectly, including the recording of a goodwill impairment during its restated second quarter of fiscal 2023. As a result, the Canopy Equity Method Investment with a carrying value of $266.2 million was written down to its estimated fair value of $142.7 million, resulting in an impairment of $123.5 million. This loss from impairment was included in income (loss) from unconsolidated investments within our consolidated results for Fiscal 2024. Additionally, we evaluated the Canopy Equity Method Investment as of August 31, 2022, and determined that there was an other-than-temporary impairment. Our conclusion was based on several contributing factors, including: (i) the period of time for which the fair value had been less than the carrying value and the uncertainty surrounding Canopy’s stock price recovering in the near-term, (ii) Canopy recording a significant impairment of goodwill related to its cannabis operations during its first quarter of fiscal 2023, and (iii) the uncertainty of U.S. federal cannabis permissibility. As a result, the Canopy Equity Method Investment with a carrying value of $1,695.1 million was written down to its estimated fair value of $634.8 million, resulting in an impairment of $1,060.3 million. This loss from impairment was included in income (loss) from unconsolidated investments within our consolidated results for Fiscal 2023. Other Canopy investments — In July 2022, we received 29.2 million common shares of Canopy following the exchange of C$100.0 million principal amount of our Canopy Debt Securities. In April 2023, we extended the maturity of the remaining C$100.0 million principal amount of our Canopy Debt Securities by exchanging them for the 2023 Canopy Promissory Note. The fair value of the Canopy Debt Securities was $69.6 million as of February 28, 2023. As of May 31, 2023, we determined that the 2023 Canopy Promissory Note did not have future economic value and, accordingly, the fair value was reduced to zero. Additionally, on November 1, 2023, the initial tranche of the November 2018 Canopy Warrants expired in accordance with its terms. The remaining tranches of the November 2018 Canopy Warrants were conditioned on the exercise, in full, of the expired warrants. As such, there are no longer any outstanding November 2018 Canopy Warrants. For additional information on these divestitures, acquisitions, and investments, refer to Notes 2, 5, 7, and 10. Results of Operations Financial Highlights References to organic throughout the following discussion exclude the impact of the Wine Divestiture, as appropriate. Fiscal 2024 compared with Fiscal 2023 • Our results of operations were primarily impacted by (i) lower impairment and other losses related to our investment in Canopy as compared with Fiscal 2023 and (ii) improvements within the Beer segment driven by 7.4% shipment volume growth and our successful execution of cost savings initiatives, partially offset by a decline in performance within the Wine and Spirits segment. • Net sales increased 5% largely due to an increase in Beer net sales driven primarily by shipment volume growth and favorable impact from pricing, partially offset by a decline in Wine and Spirits net sales driven primarily by a decrease in branded shipment volume. • Operating income increased 11% largely due to the improvements within (i) the Beer segment as shipment volume outpaced the growth of cost of product sold, driven by the successful execution of cost savings initiatives, (ii) the Wine and Spirits segment driven by lower transportation and warehousing costs, and (iii) the Corporate Operations and Other segment from lower Digital Business Acceleration investments as compared to Fiscal 2023, partially offset by the decline in branded wine and spirits shipment volume. • Net income attributable to CBI and diluted net income per common share attributable to CBI increased largely due to the items discussed above. Comparable Adjustments Management excludes items that affect comparability from its evaluation of the results of each operating segment as these Comparable Adjustments are not reflective of core operations of the segments. Segment operating performance and the incentive compensation of segment management are evaluated based on core segment operating income (loss) which does not include the impact of these Comparable Adjustments. As more fully described herein and in the related Notes, the Comparable Adjustments that impacted comparability in our segment results for each period are as follows: Cost of product sold Undesignated commodity derivative contracts Net gain (loss) on undesignated commodity derivative contracts represents a net gain (loss) from the changes in fair value of undesignated commodity derivative contracts. The net gain (loss) is reported outside of segment operating results until such time that the underlying exposure is recognized in the segment operating results. At settlement, the net gain (loss) from the changes in fair value of the undesignated commodity derivative contracts is reported in the appropriate operating segment, allowing the results of our operating segments to reflect the economic effects of the commodity derivative contracts without the resulting unrealized mark to fair value volatility. Flow through of inventory step-up In connection with acquisitions, the allocation of purchase price in excess of book value for certain inventories on hand at the date of acquisition is referred to as inventory step-up. Inventory step-up represents an assumed manufacturing profit attributable to the acquired business prior to acquisition. Strategic business development costs We recognized costs in connection with certain activities which are intended to streamline, increase efficiencies, and reduce our cost structure within the Wine and Spirits segment. Net flow through of reserved inventory We sold reserved inventory previously written down following the 2020 U.S. West Coast wildfires. Recovery of (loss on) inventory write-down We recognized a gain from a change in estimate on reserved bulk wine inventory and certain grapes as a result of smoke damage sustained during the 2020 U.S. West Coast wildfires. Selling, general, and administrative expenses Restructuring and other strategic business development costs We recognized costs primarily in connection with certain activities which are intended to streamline, increase efficiencies, and reduce our cost structure. Transition services agreements activity We recognized costs in connection with transition services agreements related to the previous sale of a portion of our wine and spirits business . Gain (loss) on sale of business We recognized a net gain (loss) primarily from (i) the Craft Beer Divestitures and the sale of the Daleville Facility (Fiscal 2024) and (ii) the completion of the Wine Divestiture (Fiscal 2023). For additional information, refer to Notes 2 and 5. Transaction, integration, and other acquisition-related costs We recognized costs in connection with our investments, acquisitions, and divestitures. Insurance recoveries We recognized business interruption and other recoveries largely related to severe winter weather events. For additional information on the Fiscal 2024 recoveries, refer to Note 16. Costs associated with the Reclassification We recognized costs primarily related to professional and consulting fees, printing and mailing the associated proxy statement/prospectus, all filing and other fees paid to the SEC, and the acceleration of certain commitments in connection with the Reclassification. For additional information, refer to Note 17. Impairments of assets We recognized trademark and other long-lived asset impairment losses in connection with certain continued negative trends within our previously-owned craft beer business . For additional information, refer to Notes 5 and 7. Other gains (losses) We recognized other gains (losses) primarily from (i) a net loss from changes in the indemnification of liabilities associated with prior period divestitures (Fiscal 2024), (ii) net decreases in estimated fair values of contingent liabilities associated with prior period acquisitions , and (iii) a gain recognized on the remeasurement of our previously held equity interest to the acquisition-date fair value (Fiscal 2023). Income (loss) from unconsolidated investments We recognized income (loss) primarily from (i) comparable adjustments to equity in losses from Canopy’s results, (ii) impairments of our Canopy Equity Method Investment, (iii) unrealized net losses from the changes in fair value of our securities measured at fair value, and (iv) impairments of certain other equity method investments (Fiscal 2024). For additional information, refer to Notes 7 and 10. Business Segments Net sales The increase in Beer net sales is largely due to (i) $564.5 million of shipment volume growth, which benefited from continued consumer demand for our Mexican beer portfolio, and (ii) $147.6 million of favorable impact from pricing in select markets, partially offset by an $11.5 million decline in net sales from the Craft Beer Divestitures. (1) Includes adjustments to remove volumes associated with the Wine Divestiture for the period March 1, 2022, through October 5, 2022. The decrease in Wine and Spirits net sales is due to a $149.9 million decrease in organic net sales and $38.5 million from the Wine Divestiture. The decrease in organic net sales is driven by a $175.2 million decrease in branded wine and spirits shipment volume, partially offset by (i) $21.4 million of favorable impact from pricing and (ii) $4.3 million of favorable product mix, driven by consumer-led premiumization. The decrease in branded wine and spirits shipment volume is primarily attributable to our U.S. wholesale market, driven by declines in both the overall wine market and in our mainstream and premium brands. The favorable impact from pricing was driven by price increases, partially offset by lower contractual distributor payments as compared to Fiscal 2023. While we expect the unfavorable U.S. wholesale wine market trends to continue in Fiscal 2025, we have identified key actions to improve marketing execution and sales performance. Gross profit Gross profit as a percent of net sales remained relatively flat at 50.4% for Fiscal 2024 compared with 50.5% for Fiscal 2023. This was driven by (i) 135 basis points of rate decline from higher cost of product sold within the Beer segment, driven by the increase in material costs, and (ii) approximately 30 basis points of rate decline resulting from unfavorable channel mix within the Wine and Spirits segment, offset by (i) approximately 60 basis points of favorable impact from Beer pricing in select markets, (ii) a favorable change of approximately 50 basis points in Comparable Adjustments, and (iii) approximately 35 basis points of rate growth from lower cost of product sold within the Wine and Spirits segment. Selling, general, and administrative expenses Selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percent of net sales decreased to 18.5% for Fiscal 2024 as compared with 20.4% for Fiscal 2023. The decrease is driven largely by (i) approximately 95 basis points of rate decline as the increase in Beer net sales exceeded the increase in selling, general, and administrative expenses, (ii) a favorable change in Comparable Adjustments, contributing approximately 60 basis points of rate decline, and (iii) approximately 30 basis points of rate decline from a decrease in the Corporate Operations and Other segment’s selling, general, and administrative expenses. Operating income (loss) Income (loss) from unconsolidated investments Interest expense Interest expense increased to $435.4 million for Fiscal 2024 as compared to $398.7 million for Fiscal 2023. This increase of $36.7 million, or 9%, is due to approximately $675 million of higher average borrowings and approximately 20 basis points of higher weighted average interest rates, partially offset by an increase in capitalized interest in connection with the Mexico Beer Projects. The higher average borrowings and weighted average interest rates are largely attributable to funding the aggregate cash payment to holders of Class B Stock in connection with the Reclassification. For additional information, refer to Notes 12 and 17. Loss on extinguishment of debt Loss on extinguishment of debt primarily consists of a premium payment and the write-off of debt issuance costs in connection with the tender offers of our 3.20% February 2018 Senior Notes and 4.25% May 2013 Senior Notes and make-whole payments in connection with the early redemption of those notes (Fiscal 2023). (Provision for) benefit from income taxes The provision for income taxes increased to $456.6 million for Fiscal 2024 from $422.1 million for Fiscal 2023. Our effective tax rate for Fiscal 2024 was 20.6% as compared with 110.0% for Fiscal 2023. In comparison to prior year, our income taxes were impacted primarily by: • an increase in the valuation allowance related to our investment in Canopy, driven by the Canopy Equity Method Investment impairment recognized in Fiscal 2023; offset by • a net income tax benefit recognized from the realization of tax losses related to a prior period divestiture recognized in Fiscal 2023; and • the effective tax rates applicable to our foreign businesses. For additional information, refer to Note 13. The OECD introduced a framework under Pillar Two which includes a global minimum tax rate of 15%. Many jurisdictions in which we do business have started to enact laws implementing Pillar Two. We are monitoring these developments and currently do not believe these rules will have a material impact on our financial condition and/or consolidated results for Fiscal 2025. We expect our reported effective tax rate for Fiscal 2025 to be in the range of 17.5% to 19.5%. This range does not reflect any tax impact associated with our Canopy investment and related activities. Net income (loss) attributable to CBI Net income (loss) attributable to CBI increased to $1,727.4 million for Fiscal 2024 from $(71.0) million for Fiscal 2023. This increase of $1,798.4 million, is primarily attributable to (i) lower impairment and other losses related to our investment in Canopy and (ii) the Fiscal 2024 improvements within the Beer segment as shipment volume growth exceeded the growth of cost of product sold, driven by the successful execution of cost savings initiatives, partially offset by the decline in performance within the Wine and Spirits segment. Liquidity and Capital Resources General Our primary source of liquidity has been cash flow from operating activities. Our ability to consistently generate robust cash flow from our operations is one of our most significant financial strengths; it enables us to invest in our people and our brands, make capital investments and strategic acquisitions, provide a cash dividend program, and from time-to-time, repurchase shares of our common stock. Our largest use of cash in our operations is for purchasing and carrying inventories and carrying seasonal accounts receivable. Historically, we have used this cash flow to repay our short-term borrowings and fund capital expenditures. Additionally, our commercial paper program is used to fund our short-term borrowing requirements and to maintain our access to the capital markets. We use our short-term borrowings, including our commercial paper program, to support our working capital requirements and capital expenditures, among other things. We seek to maintain adequate liquidity to meet working capital requirements, fund capital expenditures, and repay scheduled principal and interest payments on debt. Absent deterioration of market conditions, we believe that cash flows from operating and financing activities will provide adequate resources to satisfy our working capital, scheduled principal and interest payments on debt, anticipated dividend payments, periodic share repurchases, and anticipated capital expenditure requirements for both our short-term and long-term capital needs. We have an agreement with a financial institution for payment services and to facilitate a voluntary supply chain finance program through this participating financial institution. The program is available to certain of our suppliers allowing them the option to manage their cash flow. We are not a party to the agreements between the participating financial institution and the suppliers in connection with the program. Our rights and obligations to our suppliers, including amounts due and scheduled payment terms, are not impacted. For additional information, refer to Note 16. Cash Flows Operating activities The increase in net cash provided by (used in) operating activities consists of: The $13.3 million net change in operating assets and liabilities was driven by an increase in accounts payable for both the Beer and Wine and Spirits segments largely due to the timing of payments. These changes were largely offset by operating cash flow increases for the Beer segment in both (i) inventory levels and (ii) accounts receivable primarily attributable to the timing of collections. Additionally, net cash provided by operating activities was negatively impacted by higher income tax payments in Fiscal 2024 as compared to Fiscal 2023. Investing activities Net cash used in investing activities increased to $1,285.9 million for Fiscal 2024 from $999.4 million for Fiscal 2023. This increase of $286.5 million, or 29%, was primarily due to (i) $233.7 million of additional capital expenditures for Fiscal 2024 largely related to the Mexico Beer Projects and (ii) $91.3 million of reduced proceeds from the sale of business, driven by the Wine Divestiture in Fiscal 2023. The increase in net cash used in investing activities was partially offset by a $29.6 million decrease in business acquisitions for Fiscal 2024. Business acquisitions and divestitures consist primarily of the following: For additional information on these acquisitions and divestitures, refer to Notes 2 and 8. Financing activities The decrease in net cash provided by (used in) financing activities consists of: Debt Total debt outstanding as of February 29, 2024, amounted to $11,879.3 million, a decrease of $582.0 million, or 5%, from February 28, 2023. This decrease consisted of: Bank facilities In May 2023, we repaid the outstanding three-year term loan facility borrowings under the August 2022 Term Credit Agreement with proceeds from the May 2023 Senior Notes (see “Senior notes” below). In August 2023, we repaid the outstanding five-year term loan facility borrowings under the April 2022 Term Credit Agreement with proceeds from commercial paper borrowings. Senior notes In May 2023, we issued the May 2023 Senior Notes. Proceeds from this offering, net of discount and debt issuance costs, of $739.8 million were used for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of outstanding borrowings under the August 2022 Term Credit Agreement and to reduce outstanding commercial paper borrowings. In January 2024, we issued the January 2024 Senior Notes. Proceeds from this offering, net of discount and debt issuance costs, of $397.2 million were used for general corporate purposes, including working capital, funding capital expenditures, repayment of indebtedness, and other business opportunities. General The majority of our outstanding borrowings as of February 29, 2024, consisted of fixed-rate senior unsecured notes, with maturities ranging from calendar 2024 to calendar 2050, as follows: Additionally, we have a commercial paper program which provides for the issuance of up to an aggregate principal amount of $2.25 billion of commercial paper. Our commercial paper program is backed by unused commitments under our revolving credit facility under our 2022 Credit Agreement. Accordingly, outstanding borrowings under our commercial paper program reduce the amount available under our revolving credit facility. We do not have purchase commitments from buyers for our commercial paper and, therefore, our ability to issue commercial paper is subject to market demand. If the commercial paper market is not available to us for any reason when commercial paper borrowings mature, we will utilize unused commitments under our revolving credit facility under our 2022 Credit Agreement to repay commercial paper borrowings. We do not expect that fluctuations in demand for commercial paper will affect our liquidity given our borrowing capacity available under our revolving credit facility. We had the following remaining borrowing capacity available under our 2022 Credit Agreement: (1) Net of outstanding revolving credit facility borrowings and outstanding letters of credit under our 2022 Credit Agreement and outstanding borrowings under our commercial paper program (excluding unamortized discount) of $241.5 million and $78.7 million as of February 29, 2024 , and April 16, 2024, respectively. The financial institutions participating in our 2022 Credit Agreement have complied with prior funding requests and we believe they will comply with any future funding requests. However, there can be no assurances that any particular financial institution will continue to do so. As of February 29, 2024, we and our subsidiaries were subject to covenants that are contained in our 2022 Credit Agreement, including those restricting the incurrence of additional subsidiary indebtedness, additional liens, mergers and consolidations, transactions with affiliates, and sale and leaseback transactions, in each case subject to numerous conditions, exceptions, and thresholds. The financial covenants are limited to a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum net leverage ratio, both as defined in our 2022 Credit Agreement. As of February 29, 2024, under our 2022 Credit Agreement, the minimum interest coverage ratio was 2.5x and the maximum net leverage ratio was 4.0x. In April 2024, the October 2022 Credit Agreement Amendment, which revised certain defined terms and covenants in the 2022 Credit Agreement, became effective. Our indentures relating to our outstanding senior notes contain certain covenants, including, but not limited to: (i) a limitation on liens on certain assets, (ii) a limitation on certain sale and leaseback transactions, and (iii) restrictions on mergers, consolidations, and the transfer of all or substantially all of our assets to another person. As of February 29, 2024, we were in compliance with our covenants under our 2022 Credit Agreement and our indentures, and have met all debt payment obligations. For further discussion and presentation of our borrowings and available sources of borrowing, refer to Note 12. Common Stock Dividends On April 10, 2024, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $1.01 per share of Class A Stock and $0.91 per share of Class 1 Stock payable on May 17, 2024, to stockholders of record of each class as of the close of business on May 3, 2024. We expect to return approximately $740 million to stockholders in Fiscal 2025 through cash dividends. We currently expect to continue to pay a regular quarterly cash dividend to stockholders of our common stock in the future, but such payments are subject to approval of our Board of Directors and are dependent upon our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, and other factors, including those set forth under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” of this Form 10-K. Share Repurchase Program Our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of our publicly traded common stock of up to $2.0 billion under the 2021 Authorization and an additional repurchase of up to $2.0 billion under the 2023 Authorization. During Fiscal 2024, we repurchased 1,043,366 shares of Class A Stock pursuant to the 2021 Authorization through open market transactions at an aggregate cost of $249.7 million, excluding the impact of Federal excise tax owed pursuant to the IRA, or an average cost of $239.34 per share. Subsequent to February 29, 2024, we repurchased 424,783 shares of Class A Stock pursuant to the 2021 Authorization at an aggregate cost of $110.0 million, excluding the impact of Federal excise tax owed pursuant to the IRA, through open market transactions. We primarily used cash on hand to pay the purchase price for the repurchased shares. As of April 23, 2024, total shares repurchased under the 2021 Authorization and the 2023 Authorization are as follows: Share repurchases under the 2021 Authorization and the 2023 Authorization may be accomplished at management’s discretion from time to time based on market conditions, our cash and debt position, and other factors as determined by management. Shares may be repurchased through open market or privately negotiated transactions. We may fund future share repurchases with cash generated from operations and/or proceeds from borrowings. Any repurchased shares will become treasury shares. We currently expect to continue to repurchase shares in the future, but such repurchases are dependent upon our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, and other factors, including those set forth under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” of this Form 10-K. For additional information, refer to Note 17. Capital Resources We have maintained adequate liquidity to meet working capital requirements, fund capital expenditures, and repay scheduled principal and interest payments on debt. Absent deterioration of market conditions, we believe that cash flows from operating and financing activities will provide adequate resources to satisfy our working capital, scheduled principal and interest payments on debt, anticipated dividend payments, periodic share repurchases, and anticipated capital expenditure requirements for both our short-term and long-term capital needs. The following sets forth information about our outstanding obligations at February 29, 2024. For a detailed discussion of the items noted in the following table, refer to Notes 11 through 16. (1) Interest payments on long-term debt do not include interest related to finance lease obligations as amounts are not material. (2) Other long-term liabilities do not include payments for unrecognized tax benefit liabilities of $321.4 million due to the uncertainty of the timing of future cash flows associated with these unrecognized tax benefit liabilities. In addition, other long-term liabilities do not include expected payments for interest and penalties associated with unrecognized tax benefit liabilities as amounts are not material. For a detailed discussion of these items, refer to Note 13. (3) Contracts to purchase equipment and services primarily related to the Mexico Beer Projects. For further information about these purchase obligations, refer to “Capital expenditures” below. (4) Publicly announced intent to invest (i) $100 million in female-founded or -led companies through our Focus on Female Founders program over a 10-year period concluding in fiscal 2029 and (ii) $100 million to support minority-founded or -owned companies in the beverage alcohol space and related categories through our Focus on Minority Founder Venture program over a 10-year period concluding in fiscal 2031. We have invested a total of $111.5 million through Fiscal 2024 in female-founded or -led and minority-founded or -owned companies. Capital Expenditures During Fiscal 2024, we incurred $1,269.1 million for capital expenditures, including $947.9 million for the Beer segment primarily for the Mexico Beer Projects. We plan to spend from $1.4 billion to $1.5 billion for capital expenditures in Fiscal 2025, including approximately $1.2 billion for the Beer segment associated primarily with the Mexico Beer Projects. The remaining planned Fiscal 2025 capital expenditures consist of improvements to existing operating facilities and replacements of existing equipment and/or buildings. Management reviews the capital expenditure program periodically and modifies it as required to meet current and projected future business needs. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements. Estimates are based on historical experience, observance of trends in the industry, information provided by our customers, and information available from other outside sources, as appropriate. We review estimates to ensure that they appropriately reflect changes in our business on an ongoing basis. Certain policies are particularly important to the portrayal of our financial position and results of operations and require the application of significant judgment by management to determine appropriate assumptions to be used in certain estimates; as a result, they are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. See Note 1 for a description of our significant accounting policies. Our critical accounting estimates include: • Equity method investments. We monitor our equity method investments for factors indicating other-than-temporary impairment. We consider several factors when evaluating our investments, including, but not limited to, (i) the period of time for which the fair value has been less than the carrying value, (ii) operating and financial performance of the investee, (iii) the investee’s future business plans and projections, (iv) recent transactions and market valuations of publicly traded companies, where available, (v) discussions with their management, and (vi) our ability and intent to hold the investment until it recovers in value. Canopy Equity Method Investment – monitored for other-than-temporary impairment at each reporting date, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the investment may not be recoverable. Following the completion of the Canopy Transaction in April 2024 and the conversion of our Canopy common shares to Exchangeable Shares, we no longer apply the equity method to our investment in Canopy. We evaluated the Canopy Equity Method Investment as of May 31, 2023, and determined there was an other-than-temporary impairment. Our conclusion was based on several contributing factors, including: (i) the fair value being less than the carrying value and the uncertainty surrounding Canopy’s stock price recovering in the near-term, (ii) Canopy recorded significant costs in its fourth quarter of fiscal 2023 results designed to align its Canadian cannabis operations and resources in response to continued unfavorable market trends, (iii) the substantial doubt about Canopy’s ability to continue as a going concern, as disclosed by Canopy, and (iv) Canopy’s identification of material misstatements in certain of its previously reported financial results related to sales in its BioSteel reporting unit that were accounted for incorrectly, including the recording of a goodwill impairment during its restated second quarter of fiscal 2023. As a result, the Canopy Equity Method Investment with a carrying value of $266.2 million was written down to its estimated fair value of $142.7 million, resulting in an impairment of $123.5 million. The estimated fair value was determined based on the closing price of the underlying equity security as of May 31, 2023. As of August 31, 2022, we evaluated the Canopy Equity Method Investment and determined there was an other-than-temporary impairment based on several contributing factors, including: (i) the period of time for which the fair value had been less than the carrying value and the uncertainty surrounding Canopy’s stock price recovering in the near-term, (ii) Canopy recording a significant impairment of goodwill related to its cannabis operations during its first quarter of fiscal 2023, and (iii) the uncertainty of U.S. federal cannabis permissibility. As a result, the Canopy Equity Method Investment with a carrying value of $1,695.1 million was written down to its estimated fair value of $634.8 million, resulting in an impairment of $1,060.3 million. The estimated fair value was determined based on the closing price of the underlying equity security as of August 31, 2022. • Goodwill and other intangible assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets are classified into three categories: (i) goodwill, (ii) intangible assets with definite lives subject to amortization, and (iii) intangible assets with indefinite lives not subject to amortization. For intangible assets with definite lives, impairment testing is required if conditions exist that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. For intangible assets with indefinite lives and for goodwill, impairment testing is required at least annually or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that these assets might be impaired. We may perform a qualitative evaluation prior to a quantitative test to determine if an impairment exists. However, if the results of the qualitative evaluation are inconclusive or suggest an impairment may exist, we must proceed to the quantitative test. The qualitative evaluation is an assessment of factors, including market conditions, industry changes, actual results as compared to forecasted results, or the timing of recent acquisitions and/or divestitures. The quantitative test estimates the fair value utilizing assumptions and projections regarding items such as future cash flows, revenues, earnings, and other factors. The factors and assumptions used reflect our estimates and are based on historical trends, projections, and assumptions, including expectations of future economic and competitive conditions that are used in current strategic operating plans; however, these are subject to change as a result of changing market conditions. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to recognize an impairment loss for these assets. The recognition of any resulting impairment loss could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. We perform annual impairment tests and re-evaluate the useful lives of other intangible assets with indefinite lives at the annual impairment test measurement date of January 1 or when circumstances arise that indicate a possible impairment or change in useful life might exist. Goodwill – Our reporting units with goodwill include the Beer segment and the Wine and Spirits segment. In the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2024, we performed our annual goodwill impairment analysis using the quantitative assessment. No indication of impairment was noted for either of our reporting units, as the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units with goodwill exceeded their carrying value. Based on this analysis, the reporting unit with the lowest amount of estimated fair value in excess of its carrying value was the Wine and Spirits reporting unit with approximately 11% excess fair value. For Fiscal 2023 and Fiscal 2022, as a result of our annual goodwill impairment analyses, we concluded that there were no indications of impairment for either of our reporting units. The most significant assumptions used in the discounted cash flow calculation to determine the estimated fair value of our reporting units in connection with the impairment testing are: (i) the discount rate, (ii) the expected long-term growth rate, and (iii) the annual cash flow projections. As of January 1, 2024, we performed sensitivities in our impairment testing of goodwill by (i) increasing the discount rate 50 basis points, (ii) decreasing the expected long-term growth rate 50 basis points, and (iii) decreasing the annual cash flow projections 100 basis points. None of these sensitivities individually would have resulted in a conclusion that the goodwill of our reporting units was impaired. Other intangible assets – Our intangible assets consist primarily of customer relationships and trademarks obtained through business acquisitions. Customer relationships are amortized over their estimated useful lives. The trademarks that were determined to have indefinite useful lives are not amortized. Using the quantitative assessment, our trademarks are evaluated for impairment by comparing the carrying value of the trademarks to their estimated fair value. The estimated fair value of trademarks is calculated based on an income approach using the relief from royalty method. In connection with our annual trademark analysis, we performed a quantitative assessment for the imported beer, wine, and spirits trademarks and concluded that there were no indications of impairment for any of these trademark units. In the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2023, certain continued negative trends within our Funky Buddha and Four Corners craft beer portfolios, including ongoing negative cash flows, resulted in our decision to revise our long-term financial forecasts for these portfolios. Accordingly, the Beer segment’s Funky Buddha and Four Corners craft beer businesses recognized $9.0 million and $4.0 million impairment losses, respectively, in connection with the write-off of their trademark assets. In Fiscal 2024, we completed the Craft Beer Divestitures. Refer to Notes 2 and 7 for further discussion. There were no indications of impairment for any of our trademark units for Fiscal 2022. The most significant assumptions used in the relief from royalty method to determine the estimated fair value of intangible assets with indefinite lives in connection with impairment testing are: (i) the estimated royalty rate, (ii) the discount rate, (iii) the expected long-term growth rate, and (iv) the annual revenue projections. As of January 1, 2024, we performed sensitivities in our impairment testing of trademarks by (i) decreasing the royalty rate 50 basis points, (ii) increasing the discount rate 50 basis points, (iii) decreasing the expected long-term growth rate 50 basis points, and (iv) decreasing the annual revenue projections 100 basis points. None of these sensitivities individually would have resulted in a conclusion that the trademarks of our reporting units were impaired. Divestitures – When some, but not all of a reporting unit that constitutes a business is disposed of, some of the goodwill of the reporting unit should be allocated to the portion of the reporting unit being disposed of. The allocation of goodwill is based on the relative fair values of the portion of the reporting unit being disposed of and the portion of the reporting unit remaining. This approach requires a determination of the fair value of both the business being disposed and the businesses retained within the reporting unit. For Fiscal 2023, o ur estimate of fair value for the Wine Divestiture was determined based on the expected proceeds from the transaction. The components sold were a part of the Wine and Spirits segment and were included in that reporting unit through the date of divestiture. Goodwill was allocated to the assets based on the relative fair value of the business being sold compared to the relative fair value of the reporting unit. Goodwill not allocated to assets associated with the divestiture remained in the wine and spirits reporting unit. For additional information on our goodwill and intangible assets refer to Notes 8 and 9. • Accounting for income taxes. We estimate our deferred tax assets and liabilities, income taxes payable, provision for income taxes, and unrecognized tax benefit liabilities based upon various factors including, but not limited to, historical pretax operating income, future estimates of pretax operating income, differences between book and tax treatment of various items of income and expense, interpretation of tax laws, and tax planning strategies. We are subject to income taxes in Canada, Mexico, Switzerland, the U.S., and other jurisdictions. We are regularly audited by federal, state, and foreign tax authorities, but a number of years may elapse before an uncertain tax position is audited and finally resolved. We believe all tax positions are fully supported. We recognize tax assets and liabilities in accordance with the FASB guidance for income tax accounting. Accordingly, we recognize a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position when it is more likely than not the position will be sustained upon examination based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the unrecognized tax benefit liabilities. In addition, changes in existing tax laws or rates could significantly change our current estimate of our unrecognized tax benefit liabilities. These differences will be reflected as increases or decreases to income tax expense in the period in which they are determined. Changes in current estimates, if significant, could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. We recognize our deferred tax assets and liabilities based upon the expected future tax outcome of amounts recognized in our results of operations. If necessary, we recognize a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not they will not be realized. We evaluate our ability to realize the tax benefits associated with deferred tax assets by assessing the adequacy of future expected taxable income, historical and projected operating results, and the availability of prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. The realization of deferred tax assets is evaluated by jurisdiction and the realizability of these assets can vary based on the character of the tax attribute and the carryforward periods specific to each jurisdiction. We believe it is more likely than not the results of future operations will generate sufficient taxable income to realize our existing deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances. Changes in the realizability of our deferred tax assets will be reflected in our effective tax rate in the period in which they are determined. Change in Accounting Guidance Accounting guidance adopted for Fiscal 2024 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. For information regarding recent accounting pronouncements, not yet adopted, see Note 1.