********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

This report contains statements that are not historical facts and are considered “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on current projections about operations, industry conditions, financial condition and liquidity. Words that identify forward-looking statements include, without limitation, words such as "may," "could," "will," "should," "possible," "plan," "predict," "forecast," "potential," "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "believe," "may impact," "on track," "goal," "strategy" and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance, an acquisition or our businesses. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. Those statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements, historical experience or our present expectations. Some important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our expectations in any forward-looking statements include: • weakening of economic conditions, or the anticipation thereof, that could adversely affect the level of demand for our products; • geopolitical risks, including from international conflicts and upcoming elections in the United States and other countries, which could, among other things, lead to increased market volatility; • pricing pressures generally, including cost-containment measures that could adversely affect the price of or demand for our products; • changes in foreign currency exchange markets; • legislative and regulatory actions; • unanticipated issues arising in connection with clinical studies and otherwise that affect approval of new products by the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies; • inflationary pressures; • increased interest rates or interest rate volatility; • supply chain disruptions; • changes in labor markets; • changes in reimbursement levels from third-party payors; • a significant increase in product liability claims; • the ultimate total cost with respect to recall-related and other regulatory and quality matters; • the impact of investigative and legal proceedings and compliance risks; • resolution of tax audits; • changes in tax laws and regulations; • the impact of legislation to reform the healthcare system in the United States or other countries; • costs to comply with medical device regulations; • changes in financial markets; • changes in our credit ratings; • changes in the competitive environment; • our ability to integrate and realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions in full or at all or within the expected timeframes; • our ability to realize anticipated cost savings; • potential negative impacts resulting from climate change or other environmental, social and governance and sustainability related matters; • the impact on our operations and financial results of any public health emergency and any related policies and actions by governments or other third parties; • breaches or failures of our or our vendors’ or customers’ information technology systems or products, including by cyber-attack, data leakage, unauthorized access or theft; and • other risks detailed in our filings with the SEC. While we believe that the assumptions underlying such forward-looking statements are reasonable, there can be no assurance that future events or developments will not cause such statements to be inaccurate. All forward-looking statements contained in this report are qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. We expressly disclaim any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions or circumstances on which those expectations may be based, or that affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties discussed below that could materially and adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem not to be material or that could apply to any company may also materially and adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the risks discussed below or other risks actually occur or continue to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Accordingly, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as other information contained in or incorporated by reference in this report. BUSINESS AND OPERATIONAL RISKS We use a variety of raw materials, components, devices and third-party services in our global supply chains, production and distribution processes; significant shortages, price increases or unavailability of third-party services have in the past increased, and could in the future increase, our operating costs and could require significant capital expenditures or adversely impact the competitive position of our products: Our reliance on certain suppliers to secure raw materials, components and finished devices, and on certain third-party service providers, such as sterilization service providers, exposes us to product shortages and unanticipated increases in prices, whether due to inflationary pressure, regulatory changes, litigation exposure, geopolitical tensions or otherwise. For example, in the past we experienced limited product availability due to an electronic components shortage in certain product lines. If a similar shortage occurs in the future with respect to other raw materials or components, we may not be able to obtain them from our suppliers on a timely basis, or at all, or identify alternative suppliers. In addition, several raw materials, components, finished devices and services are procured from a sole source due to the quality considerations, unique intellectual property considerations or constraints associated with regulatory requirements. If sole-source suppliers or service providers are unable or unwilling to deliver these materials or services as a result of financial difficulties, acquisition by a third party, natural disasters or otherwise, we may not be able to manufacture or have available one or more products during such period of unavailability and our business could suffer. In certain cases, we may not be able to establish additional or replacement suppliers for such materials or service providers for such services in a timely or cost-effective manner, often as a result of FDA and other regulations that require, among other things, validation of materials, components and services prior to their use in or with our products. In certain instances we have been unable to meet demand due to supply chain challenges, which has led to loss of sales. Although the impacts have not been material to date, an inability to meet demand due to supply chain challenges in the future could materially adversely impact our reputation, the competitive position of our products and our business. Any of the foregoing risks could have a material adverse impact on our profitability and results of operations. In addition, since 2022 the market has experienced increasing inflationary pressures in part due to global supply chain disruptions, labor shortages and other impacts following the COVID-19 pandemic. We expect these inflationary pressures will continue. Inflation in the United States and in many of the countries where we conduct business has resulted in, and may continue to result in, higher interest rates and increased capital, energy, shipping and labor costs, weakening or strengthening exchange rates against the United States Dollar and other similar effects. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, inflationary increases in manufacturing costs and operating expenses, as well as negative impacts from weakening or strengthening exchange rates against the United States Dollar. Although we have been able to pass certain cost increases on to our customers, we have not been able to pass along all cost increases and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so in the future. Inflation, higher interest rates or interest rate volatility may also cause our customers to reduce or delay orders for our products and services. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse impact on our sales, profitability and results of operations. We are subject to pricing pressures as a result of cost containment measures in the United States and other countries and other factors: Initiatives to limit the growth of general healthcare expenses and hospital costs are ongoing in the markets in which we do business. These initiatives are sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector and include price regulation and competitive pricing. For example, China has implemented a volume-based procurement process designed to decrease prices for medical devices and other products. This has already impacted our joint replacement and spine businesses on a national level, and our trauma and certain neurovascular products on a provincial level, and we expect further adoption of volume-based procurement provincially or nationally in China in 2024. Pricing pressure has also increased due to continued consolidation among healthcare providers, trends toward managed care, the shift toward governments becoming the primary payers of healthcare expenses, reduction in reimbursement levels and medical procedure volumes and government laws and regulations relating to sales and promotion, reimbursement and pricing generally. We have also reduced prices for certain products due to increased competition and if we further reduce prices, we could become less profitable. In addition, due to healthcare industry consolidation in recent years, competition to provide goods and services to industry participants has become, and may continue to become, more intense, and this consolidation has produced, and may continue to produce, larger enterprises with more bargaining power. Pricing pressures related to any of the foregoing or other factors have impacted and could in the future impact our results of operations and profitability. We operate in a highly competitive industry in which competition in the development and improvement of new and existing products is significant: The markets in which we compete are highly competitive, and a significant element of our strategy is to increase revenue growth by focusing on innovation and new product development. New business models, products and surgical procedures are introduced on an ongoing basis and our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by internal or external technological advances, as we continue to innovate to address physician and patient needs, or by our existing competitors and new market entrants. Our existing competitors and new market entrants may respond more quickly to or integrate new or emerging technologies such as robotics, artificial intelligence and machine learning in their product offerings, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, have greater access to clinical information to support ongoing product position in the market, have greater financial, marketing and other resources or be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. There can be no assurance that any products now in development, or that we may seek to develop in the future, will achieve technological feasibility, obtain regulatory approval or gain market acceptance. If we are unable to develop and launch new products, our ability to maintain or expand our market position in the markets in which we participate may be negatively impacted. We may be unable to maintain adequate working relationships with healthcare professionals: We seek to maintain close working relationships with respected physicians and medical personnel in healthcare organizations, such as hospitals and universities, who assist in product research and development. We rely on these professionals to assist us in the development and improvement of proprietary products. If we are unable to maintain these relationships due to regulatory restrictions, hospital access restrictions for non-patients or for other reasons, our ability to develop, market and sell new and improved products could be adversely affected. For example, China's National Health Commission has launched an anti-corruption campaign focused on investigating government officials and individuals employed by state-owned entities and public institutions in the healthcare sector, which has resulted in us seeing some limitations to physician and surgeon access. Although this has not had a material impact on our business, if other jurisdictions were to take this approach, our business could be adversely impacted. We rely on indirect distribution channels and major distributors that are independent of Stryker: In many markets we rely on indirect distribution channels to market, distribute and sell our products. These indirect channels often are the main point of contact for the healthcare professionals and healthcare organization customers who buy and use our products. Our ability to continue to market, distribute and sell our products may be at risk if the indirect channels become insolvent, choose to sell competitive products, choose to stop selling medical technology, fail to adhere to Stryker requirements or are subject to new or additional government regulation. We are subject to risks associated with our extensive global operations: We develop, manufacture and distribute our products globally. Our global operations are subject to risks and costs related to, among other things, changes in reimbursement; changes in regulatory requirements (such as the staggered phase-in period for manufacturers to comply with the European Union Medical Device Regulation (MDR) through December 2028); differing local product preferences and product requirements; diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries; tariffs and other trade protection measures, as well as increasing localization and protectionism policies in certain jurisdictions; international trade disputes and import or export requirements; difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; introduction of new internal business structures and programs; political and economic instability; current or potential geopolitical conflicts, such as the tensions between China and Taiwan and the wars in Ukraine and the Middle East, and related sanctions and other developments; disruptions of transportation, including port closures, increased border controls or border closures or reduced transportation availability, due to military conflicts, a global pandemic of contagious diseases like COVID-19 or otherwise; increased energy or transportation costs; fluctuations in currency exchange rates and financial markets; and increased security threats to our supply chain. Many of these risks are rapidly evolving and subject to an accelerating pace of change. Our business could be adversely impacted if we are unable to successfully manage these and other risks of global operations in an increasingly volatile environment. In addition, in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to us or our industry are evolving, and we have in certain cases become subject to divergent and conflicting laws and regulations across our operations, which could increase risk over time. We may be unable to capitalize on previous or future acquisitions: In addition to internally developed products, we invest in new products and technologies through acquisitions, including our acquisition of Cerus in 2023. Such investments are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any acquisition will be successful or will not have a material unfavorable impact on us. The risks include the activities required and resources allocated to integrate new businesses, diversion of management time that could adversely affect management’s ability to focus on other projects, the inability to realize the expected benefits, savings or synergies from the acquisition, the loss of key personnel, litigation resulting from the acquisition and exposure to unexpected liabilities of acquired companies. Certain acquisitions are subject to antitrust and competition laws, and antitrust scrutiny by regulatory agencies and changes to the regulatory approval process in the United States and foreign jurisdictions may cause approvals to take longer than anticipated to obtain, not be obtained at all, or contain burdensome conditions, which may jeopardize, delay or reduce the anticipated benefits of acquisitions to us and could impede the execution of our business strategy. In addition, we cannot be certain that the businesses we acquire will become or remain profitable. We, our business partners or our third-party vendors could experience a material failure or breach of a key information technology system, network, process or site: We rely extensively on information technology (IT) systems to conduct business. In addition, we rely on networks and services, including internet sites, cloud and software-as-a-service solutions, data hosting and processing facilities and tools and other hardware, software (including open-source software) and technical applications and platforms, some of which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties or their vendors, to assist in conducting our business. Numerous and evolving cybersecurity threats have posed, and will continue to pose, risks to the security of our IT systems, networks and product offerings, as well as the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. Some of our products and services, and information technology systems, contain or use open-source software, which poses particular risks, including potential security vulnerabilities, licensing compliance issues and quality issues. We, our customers and third-party hosting services have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, security breaches of, or unauthorized access to, products or systems. While such breaches or unauthorized access have not been material to date, we cannot guarantee that any future breach or unauthorized access will not be material and any breach or unauthorized access could impact the use of such products and systems and the security of information stored therein. Although we have made investments and expect to continue to make investments seeking to address these threats, including monitoring of networks and systems, use of artificial intelligence, hiring of experts, employee training and security policies for employees and third-party providers, the techniques used in these attacks change frequently and may be difficult to detect for periods of time and we may face difficulties in anticipating and implementing adequate preventative measures. When cybersecurity incidents occur, we follow our incident response protocols and address them in accordance with applicable governmental regulations and other legal requirements. Our response to these incidents and our investments to protect our product offerings and information technology infrastructure and data may not shield us from significant losses and potential liability or prevent any future interruption or breach of our systems. Moreover, given the increasing complexity and sophistication of the techniques used by threat actors to obtain unauthorized access or disable or degrade systems, a cyberattack could occur and persist for an extended period of time before being detected, and we may not anticipate these acts or mitigate them adequately or timely, which may compound damages before the incident is discovered or remediated. The extent of a particular cyber incident and the steps that we may need to take to investigate the incident may not be immediately clear, and it may take a significant amount of time before such investigation can be completed and full and reliable information about the incident is known. New regulations may require us to disclose information about a material cybersecurity incident before it has been resolved or fully investigated. Additionally, as threats continue to evolve and increase, and as the regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and use, and privacy becomes increasingly rigorous, we may be required to devote significant additional resources to modify and enhance our security controls and to identify and remediate any security vulnerabilities, which could adversely impact our net income. In addition, a significant number of our employees working remotely has exposed us, and may continue to expose us, to greater risks related to cybersecurity and cyber-liability. If our IT systems are damaged or cease to function properly, the networks or service providers we rely upon fail to function properly, or we or one of our third-party providers suffer a loss or disclosure of our business or stakeholder information due to any number of causes ranging from catastrophic events or power outages to improper data handling or security breaches or unauthorized access and our business continuity plans do not effectively address these failures on a timely basis, we may be exposed to reputational, competitive and business harm as well as litigation and regulatory action. An inability to successfully manage the implementation of our new commercial global enterprise resource planning (ERP) system could adversely affect our operations and operating results: We are in the process of implementing a new commercial ERP system. This system will replace many of our existing operating and financial systems. The implementation is a major undertaking, both financially and from a management and personnel perspective. Any material disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and implementation of our new ERP system could adversely affect our ability to process orders, ship products, provide services and customer support, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations or otherwise operate our business. We may be unable to attract, develop and retain executives and key employees: Our sales, technical and other key personnel play an integral role in the development, marketing and selling of new and existing products. Our future performance also depends in large part on the continued services of our senior management. If we are unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a talented, competitive work force in our highly competitive industry, or if we are unable to plan effective succession for the future, we may not be able to meet our strategic business objectives. Inflationary pressures, labor demand and shortages and other macroeconomic factors have increased and could further increase the cost of labor and could harm our ability to recruit, hire and retain talented employees. In addition, increased unionization could negatively impact our labor costs and ability to create an engaging, connected culture, which could adversely affect our ability to recruit, hire, develop and retain a talented, competitive workforce. Further, if we are unable to maintain competitive and equitable compensation and benefit programs, including incentive programs which reward financial and operational performance, our ability to recruit, hire, engage, motivate and retain talent could be negatively affected. Additionally, if we are unable to maintain an inclusive culture that aligns our diverse workforce with our mission and values, it could adversely impact our ability to recruit, hire, develop and retain key talent. Further, our remote and hybrid work practices, ability to provide flexible and alternative work arrangements, and our practices relating to corporate responsibility may not meet the needs or expectations of our employees, including senior management or other key employees, which could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees, or may harm our culture and/or decrease employee engagement, which could adversely impact our ability to recruit, hire, develop and retain a talented, competitive workforce. Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving executives and other key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. Changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully integrate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The loss of the services of any of our senior management or other key personnel, or our inability to attract highly qualified senior management and other key personnel, could harm our business. Our ability to execute our business strategy could be impaired if we are unable to replace such persons timely. In addition, recent legal and regulatory changes affect our ability to enforce post-termination obligations from certain employees with respect to non-competition, non-solicitation and protection of confidential information. This may negatively impact our ability to retain employees and protect our information and relationships with customers and other third parties. Interruption of manufacturing operations could adversely affect our business: We and our suppliers have manufacturing and supply sites all over the world. However, the manufacturing of certain of our product lines is concentrated in one or more plants or geographic regions. We have principal manufacturing and distribution facilities in the United States in Arizona, California, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, New Jersey, Puerto Rico, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia and Washington, and outside the United States in China, France, Germany, Ireland, Mexico, the Netherlands, Poland, Switzerland and Turkey. Damage to our facilities, to our suppliers’ or service providers’ facilities, or to our central distribution centers as a result of natural disasters, fires, explosions or otherwise, as well as issues in our manufacturing arising from a failure to follow specific internal protocols and procedures, compliance concerns relating to the quality systems regulation, equipment breakdown or malfunction, IT system failures or cybersecurity incidents, environmental hazard incidents or changes to environmental regulations or other factors, could adversely affect the availability of our products. In the event of an interruption in manufacturing, we may be unable to move quickly to alternate means of producing and distributing affected products to meet customer demand. In the event of a significant interruption, we may experience lengthy delays in resuming production or distribution of affected products due to the need for regulatory approvals, and we may experience loss of market share, additional expense and harm to our reputation. Our insurance program may not be adequate to cover future losses: We maintain third-party insurance to cover our exposure to certain property and casualty losses and are self-insured for claims and expenses related to other property and casualty losses, including product liability, intellectual property infringement and enforcement, environmental, and cybersecurity and data privacy losses. We manage a portion of our exposure to self-insured losses through a wholly-owned captive insurance company. Insurance coverage limits provided by third-party insurers and/or our captive insurance company may not be sufficient to fully cover certain losses we may experience. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, a significant and unpredictable need to adjust our operations as market demand for certain of our products has shifted and continues to shift or as may be mandated by governmental authorities: Some of our products are particularly sensitive to reductions in elective medical procedures. Elective medical procedures were suspended or reduced at various times during the COVID-19 pandemic in many of the markets where our products are marketed and sold, which negatively affected our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. It is not possible to predict whether elective medical procedures will again be suspended or reduced in the future and, to the extent individuals and customers are required to delay or cancel elective procedures, our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected. Further, our customers have experienced, and could continue to experience, staffing shortages that may result in decreased demand for our products, which could negatively affect our business and financial results. In addition, during the COVID-19 pandemic our products in certain divisions, such as Medical, experienced higher demand as our customers were focused on treating COVID-19 patients and preparing for future public health emergencies. Unpredictable increases in demand for certain of our products have exceeded in the past, and could exceed in the future, our capacity to meet such demand timely, which could adversely affect our customer relationships and result in negative publicity. In this regard, the accelerated development and production of products and services to address medical and other requirements could increase the risk of regulatory enforcement actions, product defects or related claims or reputational harm. Pandemics and public health emergencies, and the fear thereof, have in the past materially adversely affected and could in the future materially adversely affect, our operations, supply chain, manufacturing, product distribution, customers and other business activities: In connection with COVID-19, governmental authorities and private enterprises implemented, and may in the future implement in connection with another pandemic or public health emergency (or in response to the fear thereof), measures, such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter-in-place orders and shutdowns. Our customers, global suppliers, distributors and manufacturing facilities have in the past been, and could in the future be, materially affected by restrictive measures implemented in response to a pandemic or public health emergency, which has in the past caused and could in the future cause them to be unable to hire and retain employees, distribute or use our products or provide required services. We have as a result experienced, and could in the future experience, delays in, or the suspension of, our manufacturing operations, sales activities, research and product development activities, regulatory work streams, clinical development programs and other important commercial functions, which may result in our inability to satisfy consumer demand for our products in a timely manner or at all and which could harm our reputation, future sales and profitability. The extent of any future pandemic or public health emergency’s effect on our business and industry will depend on, among other things, the severity of the disease, the successful development, distribution and acceptance of vaccines for diseases, future resurgences and/or the spread of disease variants, all of which are uncertain and difficult to predict. The COVID-19 pandemic materially impacted us, and any future pandemic or public health emergency could materially impact us and would heighten many of the other risks described in this report. LEGAL AND REGULATORY RISKS Current economic and political conditions make tax rules in jurisdictions subject to significant change : Our future results of operations could be affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of changes in tax laws, regulations and judicial rulings. We are continuing to evaluate the impact of tax reform in the countries in which we operate as new guidance is published and new regulations are adopted. In addition, further changes in the tax laws could arise, including as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting project undertaken by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). The OECD, which represents a coalition of member countries, has put forth two proposed frameworks—Pillar One and Pillar Two—that revise the existing profit allocation and nexus rules and ensure a minimal level of taxation, respectively. On December 12, 2022, the European Union member states agreed to implement the Inclusive Framework’s global corporate minimum tax rate of 15%, and various countries (both within and outside the European Union) have enacted new laws implementing Pillar Two or have proposed legislation. The OECD continues to release additional guidance on the two-pillar framework, with widespread implementation anticipated by 2024. These changes, and any additional contemplated changes, could increase tax expense. We could be negatively impacted by future changes in the allocation of income to each of the income tax jurisdictions in which we operate: We operate in multiple income tax jurisdictions both in the United States and internationally. Accordingly, our management must determine the appropriate allocation of income to each jurisdiction based on current interpretations of complex income tax regulations. Income tax authorities regularly perform audits of our income tax filings. Income tax audits associated with the allocation of income and other complex issues, including inventory transfer pricing and cost sharing, product royalty and foreign branch arrangements, may require an extended period to resolve and may result in significant income tax adjustments. The impact of healthcare reform legislation on our business remains uncertain: Several markets where we sell our products are making efforts to expand access to health care or health insurance coverage while decreasing costs. These efforts may have a direct or unintended negative impact on access to medical technology and could have a significant effect on our business. We cannot predict what healthcare programs and regulations could ultimately be implemented at the federal or state level or the effect that any future legislation or regulation in the United States may have on our business. Similarly, we cannot predict the impact that healthcare reform legislation in other countries where we sell our products may have on our business. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation relating to the classification, manufacturing, sterilization, licensing, labeling, marketing and sale of our products: The classification, manufacturing, sterilization, licensing, labeling, marketing and sale of our products are subject to extensive and evolving regulations and rigorous regulatory enforcement by the FDA, state governments, European Union and other governmental authorities in the United States and internationally. These governmental authorities may impose additional requirements or limits on the methods, procedures or agents we use to manufacture and sterilize our products, which could have a negative impact on our business. In addition, the process of obtaining licenses, regulatory clearances and/or approvals to market and sell our products can be costly and time consuming and the clearances and/or approvals might not be granted timely. We have ongoing responsibilities under the laws and regulations applicable to the manufacturing of products within our facilities and those contracted by third parties that are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA, state Boards of Pharmacy and other governmental authorities to determine compliance with the quality system, medical device reporting regulations and other requirements. We incur significant costs to comply with regulations, including the MDR. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to a range of sanctions, including substantial fines, warning letters that require corrective action, product seizures, recalls, import restrictions, the suspension of product manufacturing or sales, revocation of approvals, exclusion from future participation in government healthcare programs, substantial fines and criminal prosecution. We are subject to federal, state and foreign healthcare regulations, including anti-bribery, anti-corruption, anti-kickback and false claims laws, globally and could face substantial penalties if we fail to comply with such regulations and laws: The relationships that we, and third parties that market and/or sell our products, have with healthcare professionals, such as physicians, hospitals, healthcare organizations and others, are subject to scrutiny under various state and federal laws often referred to collectively as healthcare fraud and abuse laws. In addition, the United States and foreign government regulators have increased the enforcement of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and other anti-bribery and anti-kickback laws. We also must comply with a variety of other laws that impose extensive tracking and reporting related to all transfers of value provided to certain healthcare professionals and others. These laws and regulations are broad in scope and are subject to evolving interpretation and we have in the past been, and in the future could be, required to incur substantial costs to investigate, audit and monitor compliance or to alter our practices. Violations or alleged violations of these laws could result in litigation and we may be subject to criminal or civil penalties and sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment of current or former employees and exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs. In 2013 and 2018 we settled claims brought by the SEC related to the FCPA. Pursuant to these settlements, we paid fines and penalties and retained an independent compliance consultant. We continue to implement recommendations that resulted from the independent compliance consultant’s review of our commercial practices to enhance our commercial business practices. In addition, we are currently investigating whether certain business activities in certain foreign countries violated provisions of the FCPA and have been contacted by the SEC, United States Department of Justice and certain other regulatory authorities. Although we are currently unable to predict the outcome of the investigations or the potential impact, if any, on our financial statements, the impacts could potentially be significant. We are subject to privacy, data protection and data security regulations and laws globally, and could face substantial penalties if we fail to comply with such regulations and laws: We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations globally regarding privacy, data protection, and data security, including those related to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer and security of personally identifiable healthcare information. For example, in the United States, privacy and security regulations under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, including the expanded requirements under the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, establish comprehensive standards with respect to the use and disclosure of protected health information (PHI), by covered entities, in addition to setting standards to protect the confidentiality, integrity and security of PHI. Regulators are also imposing new data privacy and security requirements, including new and greater monetary fines for privacy violations. For example, the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) established rules regarding the handling of personal data. Non-compliance with the GDPR may result in monetary penalties of up to 4% of total company revenue. Various U.S. states and other governmental authorities around the world have imposed or are considering similar types of laws and regulations, data breach reporting and penalties for non-compliance and increasing security requirements. These laws and regulations are broad in scope and are subject to evolving interpretation and we have in the past been, and in the future could be, required to incur substantial costs to monitor compliance or to alter our practices. As new privacy-related laws and regulations are implemented, the time and resources needed for us to comply with such laws and regulations, as well as our potential liability for non-compliance and reporting obligations in the case of data breaches, have increased and may further increase. We may be adversely affected by product liability claims, unfavorable court decisions or legal settlements: We are exposed to potential product liability risks inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices, many of which are implanted in the human body for long periods of time or indefinitely. We are currently defendants in a number of product liability matters, including those relating to our Rejuvenate and ABGII Modular-Neck hip stems, LFIT Anatomic CoCr V40 Femoral Heads and the product liability lawsuits and claims relating to Wright Medical Group N.V. (Wright) legacy hip products discussed in Note 7 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. These matters are subject to uncertainties and outcomes are not predictable. Further, the European Representative Actions Directive (the Collective Redress Directive), which became effective in 2023, mandates a class action regime in each EU member state to facilitate domestic and cross-border class actions in a wide range of areas, including product liability claims with medical devices. The Collective Redress Directive could result in additional litigation risks and significant legal expenses. In addition, we may incur significant legal expenses or reputational damage for product liability claims regardless of whether we are found to be liable. Intellectual property litigation and infringement claims could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling certain of our products: The medical device industry is characterized by extensive intellectual property litigation and, from time to time, we are the subject of claims of infringement or misappropriation. Regardless of the outcome, such claims are expensive to defend and divert management and operating personnel from other business issues. A successful claim or claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could result in payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments or negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products in the affected category. Dependence on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to such rights may impact offerings in our product portfolios: Our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. If we fail to obtain or maintain adequate intellectual property protection, it could allow others to sell products that directly compete with proprietary features in our product portfolio. Also, our issued patents may be subject to claims challenging their validity and scope and raising other issues. In addition, currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents. MARKET RISKS We have exposure to exchange rate fluctuations on cross border transactions and translation of local currency results into United States Dollars: We report our financial results in United States Dollars and approximately 25% of our net sales are denominated in foreign currencies, including the Australian Dollar, British Pound, Canadian Dollar, Euro and Japanese Yen. Cross border transactions with external parties and intercompany relationships result in increased exposure to foreign currency exchange effects. While we use derivative instruments to manage the impact of currency exchange, our hedging strategies may not be successful, and our unhedged exposures continue to be subject to currency fluctuations. In addition, the weakening or strengthening of the United States Dollar results in favorable or unfavorable translation effects when the results of our foreign locations are translated into United States Dollars. Additional capital that we may require in the future may not be available to us or may only be available to us on unfavorable terms, which could negatively affect our liquidity: Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including operating requirements, current and future acquisitions and the need to refinance existing debt. Our ability to issue additional debt or enter into other financing arrangements on acceptable terms could be adversely affected by our debt levels, unfavorable changes in economic conditions or uncertainties that affect the capital markets. Changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized credit rating agencies could also adversely affect our access to and cost of financing. Higher borrowing costs or the inability to access capital markets could adversely affect our ability to support future growth and operating requirements. In addition, we have experienced, and could in the future experience, loss of sales and profits due to delayed payments or insolvency of healthcare professionals, hospitals and other customers and suppliers facing liquidity issues due to the current macroeconomic environment, type and number of conditions being treated or for other reasons. As a result, we may be compelled to take additional measures to preserve our cash flow, including through the reduction of operating expenses or suspension of dividend payments. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE RISKS We could be negatively impacted by corporate responsibility and sustainability-related matters: Governments, investors, customers, employees and other stakeholders have been increasingly focused on corporate responsibility practices and disclosures, and expectations in this area continue to rapidly evolve. On occasion, we announce new initiatives, including goals, under our corporate responsibility framework. This framework is aligned with our areas of interest, which include environment and sustainability, social impact, diversity, equity and inclusion and supply chain management, among others. Implementation of these goals and initiatives involves risks and uncertainties, requires investments and depends in part on third-party performance or data that is outside our control. We cannot guarantee that we will achieve our announced corporate responsibility goals and initiatives. The criteria by which our corporate responsibility practices are assessed may change due to the quickly evolving landscape, which could result in greater regulatory requirements or expectations of us and cause us to undertake costly initiatives to satisfy such new criteria. Moreover, the increasing attention to corporate responsibility initiatives could also result in reduced demand for our products, reduced profits and increased investigations and litigation. If we are unable to satisfy evolving criteria, investors and other stakeholders may conclude that our policies and/or actions with respect to corporate responsibility matters are inadequate. If we fail or are perceived to have failed to achieve previously announced initiatives or goals, comply with corporate responsibility laws and regulations, meet evolving expectations or accurately disclose our progress, we could face legal and regulatory proceedings and our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Physical effects of climate change or legal, regulatory or market measures intended to address climate change could adversely affect our operations and operating results: Risks associated with climate change are subject to increasing societal, regulatory and political focus in the United States and globally. Shifts in weather patterns caused by climate change are expected to increase the frequency, severity or duration of certain adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, wildfires, droughts, extreme temperatures or flooding, which could cause more significant business and supply chain interruptions, damage to our products and facilities as well as the infrastructure of hospitals, medical care facilities and other customers, reduced workforce availability, increased costs of raw materials and components, increased liabilities and decreased revenues than what we have experienced in the past from such events. In addition, increased public concern over climate change has resulted in certain, and could result in additional, new legal or regulatory requirements designed to mitigate the effects of climate change, which could include the adoption of more stringent environmental laws and regulations or stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations. Such developments could result in increased compliance costs and adverse impacts on raw material availability and sourcing, manufacturing operations and the distribution of our products, which could adversely affect our operations and operating results.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

About Stryker Stryker is a global leader in medical technologies and, together with our customers, we are driven to make healthcare better. We offer innovative products and services in MedSurg, Neurotechnology, Orthopaedics and Spine that help improve patient and healthcare outcomes. Alongside our customers around the world, we impact more than 150 million patients annually. Our goal is to achieve sales growth at the high-end of the medical technology (MedTech) industry and maintain our long-term capital allocation strategy that prioritizes: (1) Acquisitions, (2) Dividends and (3) Share repurchases. Macroeconomic Environment The global economy continues to experience increased inflationary pressures in part due to global supply chain disruptions, labor shortages and other impacts of the macroeconomic environment which we anticipate will continue. Higher interest rates and capital costs, higher shipping costs, increased costs of labor, fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates and the military conflicts in Russia and Ukraine and the Middle East create additional economic challenges and uncertainties. These conditions may cause our customers to decrease or delay orders for our products and services, and the higher interest rates may impact deal mix for our capital products. Overview of 2023 In 2023 we achieved reported net sales growth of 11.1%. Excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures, sales grew 11.5% in constant currency. We reported net earnings of $3,165 and net earnings per diluted share of $8.25. Excluding the impact of certain items, we achieved adjusted net earnings (1) of $4,066 and adjusted net earnings per diluted share (1) of $10.60 representing growth of 13.5%. We continued our capital allocation strategy by investing $390 in acquisitions and paying $1,139 in dividends to our shareholders. In May 2023 we acquired Cerus for net cash consideration of $289 and up to $225 in future milestone payments. Cerus designs, develops and manufactures neurovascular products used for the treatment of hemorrhagic stroke. Cerus is part of our Neurovascular business within MedSurg and Neurotechnology. Refer to Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. During 2023 we made payments of $850 to extinguish the remaining balance on the $1.5 billion term loan scheduled to mature February 22, 2025. In August 2023 we issued €500 of floating rate senior notes due November 16, 2024. The notes bear interest at a rate based on the three-month Euro Interbank Offered Rate (EURIBOR) plus 0.3%. The notes are callable at February 16, 2024, May 16, 2024 or October 16, 2024 either by us or at the option of the notes holders. In November 2023 we repaid the outstanding €550 principal amount of 1.125% senior unsecured notes due November 30, 2023 and in December 2023 we repaid the outstanding $600 principal amount of 0.600% senior unsecured notes due December 1, 2023. We subsequently issued $600 of 4.850% senior unsecured notes due December 8, 2028 and €600 of 3.375% senior unsecured notes due December 11, 2028. (1) Refer to "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" for a discussion of non-GAAP financial measures used in this report and a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS nm - not meaningful Note: Beginning in the first quarter 2023 we consolidated Other MedSurg and Neurotechnology into Endoscopy as Other MedSurg and Neurotechnology (primarily Sustainability Solutions) has been fully integrated into our Endoscopy business. Endoscopy includes sales related to Other of $343, $302 and $277 for 2023, 2022 and 2021. We have reflected these changes in all historical periods presented. Consolidated Net Sales Consolidated net sales in 2023 increased 11.1% as reported and 11.6% in constant currency, as foreign currency exchange rates negatively impacted net sales by 0.5%. Excluding the 0.1% impact of acquisitions and divestitures, net sales in constant currency increased by 10.9% from increased unit volume and 0.6% due to higher prices. The unit volume increase was primarily due to higher shipments across all product lines. Consolidated net sales in 2022 increased 7.8% as reported and 11.0% in constant currency, as foreign currency exchange rates negatively impacted net sales by 3.2%. Excluding the 1.3% impact of acquisitions and divestitures, net sales in constant currency increased by 10.6% from increased unit volume partially offset by 0.9% due to lower prices. The unit volume increase was due to higher shipments across all MedSurg and Neurotechnology products and most Orthopaedics and Spine products. MedSurg and Neurotechnology Net Sales MedSurg and Neurotechnology net sales in 2023 increased 11.5% as reported and 12.1% in constant currency, as foreign currency exchange rates negatively impacted net sales by 0.6%. Excluding the 0.3% impact of acquisitions and divestitures, net sales in constant currency increased by 10.2% from increased unit volume and 1.6% due to higher prices. The unit volume increase was due to higher shipments across all MedSurg and Neurotechnology products. MedSurg and Neurotechnology net sales in 2022 increased 11.2% as reported and 14.1% in constant currency, as foreign currency exchange rates negatively impacted net sales by 2.9%. Excluding the 2.3% impact of acquisitions and divestitures, net sales in constant currency increased by 11.2% from increased unit volume and 0.6% due to higher prices. The unit volume increase was due to higher shipments across all MedSurg and Neurotechnology products. Orthopaedics and Spine Net Sales Orthopaedics and Spine net sales in 2023 increased 10.5% as reported and 11.1% in constant currency, as foreign currency exchange rates negatively impacted net sales by 0.6%. Net sales in constant currency increased by 11.9% from increased unit volume partially offset by 0.8% due to lower prices. The unit volume increase was due to higher shipments across all Orthopaedics and Spine products. Orthopaedics and Spine net sales in 2022 increased 3.5% as reported and 7.0% in constant currency, as foreign currency exchange rates negatively impacted net sales by 3.5%. Net sales in constant currency increased by 9.9% from increased unit volume partially offset by 2.9% due to lower prices. The unit volume increase was due to higher shipments across most Orthopaedics and Spine products. Gross Profit Gross profit was $13,058, $11,578 and $10,968 in 2023, 2022, and 2021. The key components of the change were: Gross profit as a percentage of net sales increased to 63.7% in 2023 from 62.8% in 2022 due to higher sales pricing and favorable volume offset by higher manufacturing and supply chain costs primarily due to higher raw material costs in the first six months of 2023 and supply chain inefficiencies. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales decreased to 62.8% in 2022 from 64.1% in 2021 due to higher manufacturing and supply chain costs primarily due to increased costs from purchases of electronic components at premium prices on the spot market and other inflationary pressures, primarily related to labor, steel and transportation, as well as inefficiencies from supply chain disruptions partially offset by favorable volume and lower amortization of inventory stepped up to fair value. While segment mix was not a significant driver of the change in gross profit as a percent of net sales between 2023, 2022 and 2021, we generally expect segment mix to have an unfavorable impact for the foreseeable future as we anticipate more rapid sales growth in our lower gross margin MedSurg and Neurotechnology segment than our Orthopaedics and Spine segment. Research, Development and Engineering Expenses Research, development and engineering expenses as a percentage of net sales in 2023 decreased to 6.8% from 7.9% in 2022 primarily due to increased spending for product launches, the write-off of certain intangible assets and higher spend related to medical device regulations in the European Union in 2022. Research, development and engineering expenses as a percentage of net sales in 2022 increased to 7.9% from 7.2% in 2021 primarily due to increased spending for product launches, the write-off of certain intangible assets and higher spend related to the new medical device regulations in the European Union in 2022. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales in 2023 decreased to 34.8% from 35.0% in 2022 primarily due to charges of $132 related to share-based awards for Vocera employees that vested upon our acquisition in 2022, partially offset by disciplined increases in spend and investments in 2023 to support our growth, including sales growth incentives and increased spend on travel and meetings. In addition, in 2022 we determined that certain commercial and regulatory milestones related to technology acquired in the purchase of Mobius Imaging and Cardan Robotics were no longer probable of being achieved and recorded $110 to reduce the fair value of contingent consideration. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales in 2022 decreased to 35.0% from 37.6% in 2021. Both 2022 and 2021 included charges related to certain asset impairments. Refer to Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. In 2022 we determined that certain commercial and regulatory milestones related to technology acquired in the purchase of Mobius Imaging and Cardan Robotics were no longer probable of being achieved and recorded $110 to reduce the fair value of contingent consideration. In addition, we recorded charges of $132 related to share-based awards for Vocera employees that vested upon our acquisition in 2022. Recall Charges, Net Recall charges, net were $18, ($15) and $103 in 2023, 2022 and 2021. Charges in 2021 were primarily due to the previously disclosed Rejuvenate and ABGII Modular-Neck hip stems and LFIT Anatomic CoCr V40 Femoral Heads voluntary recalls. Refer to Note 7 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization of intangible assets was $635, $627 and $619 in 2023, 2022 and 2021. These amounts include amortization related to intangible assets acquired in the second quarter 2023 from Cerus and in the first quarter 2022 from Vocera. Refer to Notes 6 and 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Goodwill Impairment In 2022 we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $216 related to our Spine business. Refer to Note 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Operating Income Operating income was $3,888, $2,841 and $2,584 in 2023, 2022 and 2021. Operating income increased as a percentage of sales to 19.0% in 2023 from 15.4% in 2022 and from 15.1% in 2021. Refer to the comments above for discussion of the primary drivers of the change. MedSurg and Neurotechnology operating income as a percentage of net sales increased to 28.2% in 2023 from 25.8% in 2022. MedSurg and Neurotechnology operating income as a percentage of net sales decreased to 25.8% in 2022 from 29.4% in 2021. Orthopaedics and Spine operating income as a percentage of net sales decreased to 27.7% in 2023 from 29.3% in 2022. Orthopaedics and Spine operating income as a percentage of net sales increased to 29.3% in 2022 from 28.8% in 2021. The key components of the change were: The increase in MedSurg and Neurotechnology operating income as a percentage of net sales in 2023 from 2022 was primarily driven by higher unit volumes, higher prices and lower manufacturing and supply chain costs due to supply chain challenges impacting capital products in our MedSurg businesses in 2022 which improved in 2023 partially offset by higher selling, general and administrative expenses due to continued investments including sales growth incentives and a more normalized cadence of travel and meetings. The decrease in MedSurg and Neurotechnology operating income as a percentage of net sales in 2022 from 2021 was primarily driven by higher manufacturing and supply chain costs due to supply chain challenges impacting capital products in our MedSurg businesses and higher selling, general and administrative expenses due to a return to more normal levels following the COVID pandemic partially offset by higher unit volumes and prices. The decrease in Orthopaedics and Spine operating income as a percentage of net sales for 2023 from 2022 was primarily driven by higher selling, general and administrative expenses due to continued investments including sales growth incentives and a more normalized cadence of travel and meetings and higher manufacturing and supply chain costs primarily due to increased inventory reserves partially offset by higher unit volumes. The increase in Orthopaedics and Spine operating income as a percentage of net sales for 2022 from 2021 was primarily driven by higher unit volumes partially offset by lower prices. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was ($215), ($158) and ($303) in 2023, 2022 and 2021. The increase in net expense in 2023 compared to 2022 was primarily due to the release of accrued interest of $50 in 2022 related to the effective settlement of the United States federal income tax audit for years 2014 through 2018. Refer to Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. The decrease in net expense in 2022 compared to 2021 was primarily due to the aforementioned release of accrued interest and higher interest income in 2022. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate was 13.8%, 12.1% and 12.6% for 2023, 2022 and 2021. The effective income tax rate for 2023 increased from 2022 due to the 2022 effective settlement of the United States federal income tax audit for years 2014 through 2018 and the 2022 reversal of deferred income tax on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries partially offset by the 2023 tax effect related to transfers of intellectual property between tax jurisdictions. The effective income tax rate for 2022 decreased from 2021 due to the 2022 effective settlement of the United States federal income tax audit for years 2014 through 2018 and the 2022 reversal of deferred income tax on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The effective income tax rates for 2023, 2022 and 2021 reflect the continued lower effective income tax rates as a result of our European operations, the tax effect related to the transfers of intellectual property between tax jurisdictions, the tax effect of future remittances of the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries and certain discrete tax items. Net Earnings Net earnings for 2023 increased to $3,165 or $8.25 per diluted share from $2,358 or $6.17 per diluted share in 2022 and $1,994 or $5.21 per diluted share in 2021. Refer to the comments above for discussion of the primary drivers of the change. Non-GAAP Financial Measures We supplement the reporting of our financial information determined under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) with certain non-GAAP financial measures, including percentage sales growth in constant currency; percentage organic sales growth; adjusted gross profit; adjusted selling, general and administrative expenses; adjusted research, development and engineering expenses; adjusted operating income; adjusted other income (expense), net; adjusted income taxes; adjusted effective income tax rate; adjusted net earnings; and adjusted net earnings per diluted share (Diluted EPS). We believe these non-GAAP financial measures provide meaningful information to assist investors and shareholders in understanding our financial results and assessing our prospects for future performance. Management believes percentage sales growth in constant currency and the other adjusted measures described above are important indicators of our operations because they exclude items that may not be indicative of or are unrelated to our core operating results and provide a baseline for analyzing trends in our underlying businesses. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures for reviewing the operating results of reportable business segments and analyzing potential future business trends in connection with our budget process and bases certain management incentive compensation on these non-GAAP financial measures. To measure percentage sales growth in constant currency, we remove the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates that affect the comparability and trend of sales. Percentage sales growth in constant currency is calculated by translating current and prior year results at the same foreign currency exchange rate. To measure percentage organic sales growth, we remove the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, acquisitions and divestitures, which affect the comparability and trend of sales. Percentage organic sales growth is calculated by translating current year and prior year results at the same foreign currency exchange rates excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures. To measure earnings performance on a consistent and comparable basis, we exclude certain items that affect the comparability of operating results and the trend of earnings. The income tax effect of each adjustment was determined based on the tax effect of the jurisdiction in which the related pre-tax adjustment was recorded. These adjustments are irregular in timing and may not be indicative of our past and future performance. The following are examples of the types of adjustments that may be included in a period: 1. Acquisition and integration-related costs . Costs related to integrating recently acquired businesses (e.g., costs associated with the termination of sales relationships, employee retention and workforce reductions, manufacturing integration costs and other integration-related activities), changes in the fair value of contingent consideration, amortization of inventory stepped-up to fair value, specific costs (e.g., deal costs and costs associated with legal entity rationalization) related to the consummation of the acquisition process and legal entity rationalization and acquisition-related tax items. 2. Amortization of purchased intangible assets . Periodic amortization expense related to purchased intangible assets. 3. Structural optimization and other special charges. Costs associated with employee retention and workforce reductions, the closure or transfer of manufacturing and other facilities (e.g., site closure costs, contract termination costs and redundant employee costs during the work transfers), product line exits (primarily inventory, long-lived asset and specifically-identified intangible asset write-offs), certain long-lived and intangible asset write-offs and impairments and other charges. 4. Medical device regulations. Costs specific to updating our quality system, product labeling, asset write-offs and product remanufacturing to comply with the new medical device reporting regulations and other requirements of the European Union. 5. Recall-related matters . Changes in our best estimate of the  probable loss, or the minimum of the range of probable losses when a best estimate within a range is not known, to resolve the Rejuvenate, LFIT V40, Wright legacy hip products and other product recalls. 6. Regulatory and legal matters . Changes in our best estimate of the probable loss, or the minimum of the range of probable losses when a best estimate within a range is not known, to resolve certain regulatory or other legal matters and the amount of favorable awards from settlements. 7. Tax matters . Impact of accounting for certain significant and discrete tax items. Because non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names. These adjusted financial measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for reported sales growth, gross profit, selling, general and administrative expenses, research, development and engineering expenses, operating income, other income (expense), net, income taxes, effective income tax rate, net earnings and net earnings per diluted share, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations when viewed with our GAAP results and the reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures at the end of the discussion of Consolidated Results of Operations below. We strongly encourage investors and shareholders to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure. The weighted-average diluted shares outstanding used in the calculation of adjusted net earnings per diluted share are the same as those used in the calculation of reported net earnings per diluted share for the respective period. Reconciliation of the Most Directly Comparable GAAP Financial Measure to Non-GAAP Financial Measure (a) Charges represent certain acquisition and integration-related costs associated with acquisitions, including: (b) Structural optimization and other special charges represent the costs associated with: (c)  Charges represent the costs specific to updating our quality system, product labeling, asset write-offs and product remanufacturing to comply with the medical device reporting regulations and other requirements of the new medical device regulations in the European Union. (d)  Charges represent changes in our best estimate of the probable loss, or the minimum of the range of probable losses when a best estimate within a range is not known, to resolve certain recall-related matters. (e)  Charges represent changes in our best estimate of the probable loss, or the minimum of the range of probable losses when a best estimate within a range is not known, to resolve certain regulatory or other legal matters and the amount of favorable awards from settlements. (f)   Benefits / (charges) represent the accounting impact of certain significant and discrete tax items, including: FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY We believe our financial condition continues to be of high quality, as evidenced by our ability to generate substantial cash from operations and to readily access capital markets at competitive rates despite the current macroeconomic environment. Operating cash flow provides the primary source of cash to fund operating needs and capital expenditures. Excess operating cash is used first to fund acquisitions to complement our portfolio of businesses. Other discretionary uses include dividends and share repurchases. We supplement operating cash flow with debt to fund our activities as necessary. Our overall cash position reflects our business results and a global cash management strategy that takes into account liquidity management, economic factors and tax considerations. Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities was $3,711, $2,624 and $3,263 in 2023, 2022 and 2021. The increase from 2022 was primarily due to higher net earnings and increased collections on accounts receivable. The decrease in 2022 compared to 2021 was due to higher costs for certain electronic components and pre-buying of critical raw materials to manage supply chain delays as well as higher accounts receivable as a result of sales occurring near the end of the year, partially offset by increased net earnings. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities was $962, $2,924 and $859 in 2023, 2022 and 2021. The decrease in cash used in 2023 was primarily due to lower amounts paid for acquisitions. Our 2023 acquisitions included Cerus and in 2022 we acquired Vocera. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities was $1,594, $749 and $2,365 in 2023, 2022 and 2021. Cash used in 2023 was primarily driven by dividend payments of $1,139 and repayments of debt, including $850 to pay off the $1,500 term loan used to fund the acquisition of Vocera and $1,208 to pay off maturing senior unsecured notes. These repayments were offset by net proceeds of $1,781 from the issuance of various senior unsecured notes as described in Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. In 2022 we made payments of $653 on long-term debt and dividend payments of $1,051. In 2021 we made payments of $1,151 on long-term debt and dividend payments of $950. There were no share repurchases in 2023, 2022 or 2021. We maintain debt levels that we consider appropriate after evaluating a number of factors including cash requirements for ongoing operations, investment and financing plans (including acquisitions and share repurchase activities) and overall cost of capital. Refer to Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Liquidity Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $3,053 and $1,928, and our current assets exceeded current liabilities by $4,597 and $3,972 on December 31, 2023 and 2022. We anticipate being able to support our short-term liquidity and operating needs from a variety of sources including cash from operations, commercial paper and existing credit lines. We also have a revolving credit agreement maturing in October 2026 with an aggregate principal amount of $2,250. We raised funds in the capital markets in the past and may continue to do so from time-to-time. We continue to have strong investment-grade short-term and long-term debt ratings that we believe should enable us to refinance our debt as needed. Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held in locations outside the United States was approximately 25% and 36% on December 31, 2023 and 2022. Guarantees and Other Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have guarantees or other off-balance sheet financing arrangements, including variable interest entities, of a magnitude that we believe could have a material impact on our financial condition or liquidity. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND FORWARD-LOOKING CASH REQUIREMENTS In 2023 we recorded charges for various legal matters as further described in Note 7 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Recorded reserves represent the best estimate of the probable loss, or the minimum of the range of probable losses when a best estimate within the range is not known. The final outcome of these matters is dependent on many variables that are difficult to predict. The ultimate cost to entirely resolve these matters may be materially different from the amount of the current estimates and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are not able to reasonably estimate the future periods in which payments will be made. As further described in Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, on December 31, 2023 we had a reserve for uncertain income tax positions of $371. Due to uncertainties regarding the ultimate resolution of income tax audits, we are not able to reasonably estimate the future periods in which any income tax payments to settle these uncertain income tax positions will be made. As further described in Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, on December 31, 2023 our defined benefit pension plans were underfunded by $341, of which approximately $337 related to plans outside the United States. Due to the rules affecting tax-deductible contributions in the jurisdictions in which the plans are offered and the impact of future plan asset performance, changes in interest rates and potential changes in legislation in the United States and other foreign jurisdictions, we are not able to reasonably estimate the amounts that may be required to fund defined benefit pension plans. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, there are certain accounting policies, which may require substantial judgment or estimation in their application. We believe these accounting policies and the others set forth in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements are critical to understanding our results of operations and financial condition. Actual results could differ from our estimates and assumptions, and any such differences could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Income Taxes Our annual tax rate is determined based on our income, statutory tax rates and the tax impacts of items treated differently for tax purposes than for financial reporting purposes. Tax law requires certain items be included in the tax return at different times than the items are reflected in the financial statements. Some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in our tax return, and some differences are temporary and reverse over time, such as depreciation expense. These temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets generally represent the tax effect of items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in future years for which we have already recorded the tax benefit in our income statement. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in our financial statements for which payment was deferred, the tax effect of expenditures for which a deduction was taken in our tax return but has not yet been recognized in our financial statements or assets recorded at fair value in business combinations for which there was no corresponding tax basis adjustment. Inherent in determining our annual tax rate are judgments regarding business plans, tax planning opportunities and expectations about future outcomes. Realization of certain deferred tax assets is dependent upon generating sufficient taxable income in the appropriate jurisdiction prior to the expiration of the carryforward periods. Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that our deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances, will be realized. We operate in multiple jurisdictions with complex tax policy and regulatory environments. In certain of these jurisdictions, we may take tax positions that management believes are supportable but are potentially subject to successful challenge by the applicable taxing authority. These differences of interpretation with the respective governmental taxing authorities can be impacted by the local economic and fiscal environment. We evaluate our tax positions and establish liabilities in accordance with the applicable accounting guidance on uncertainty in income taxes. We review these tax uncertainties in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of tax audits, and adjust them accordingly. We have a number of audits in process in various jurisdictions. Although the resolution of these tax positions is uncertain, based on currently available information, we believe that it is more likely than not that the ultimate outcomes will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Due to the number of estimates and assumptions inherent in calculating the various components of our tax provision, certain changes or future events, such as changes in tax legislation, geographic mix of earnings, completion of tax audits or earnings repatriation plans, could have an impact on those estimates and our effective tax rate. Acquisitions, Goodwill and Intangibles, and Long-Lived Assets Our financial statements include the operations of an acquired business starting from the completion of the acquisition. In addition, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded on the date of acquisition at their respective estimated fair values, with any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired recorded as goodwill. Significant judgment is required in estimating the fair value of intangible assets and in assigning their respective useful lives. Accordingly, we typically obtain the assistance of third-party valuation specialists for significant items. The fair value estimates are based on available historical information and on future expectations and assumptions deemed reasonable by management but are inherently uncertain. We typically use an income method to estimate the fair value of intangible assets, which is based on forecasts of the expected future cash flows attributable to the respective assets. Significant estimates and assumptions inherent in the valuations reflect a consideration of other marketplace participants and include the amount and timing of future cash flows (including expected growth rates and profitability), the underlying product or technology life cycles, the economic barriers to entry and the discount rate applied to the cash flows. Unanticipated market or macroeconomic events and circumstances may occur that could affect the accuracy or validity of the estimates and assumptions. Determining the useful life of an intangible asset also requires judgment. With the exception of certain trade names, the majority of our acquired intangible assets (e.g., certain trademarks or brands, customer and distributor relationships, patents and technologies) are expected to have determinable useful lives. Our assessment as to the useful lives of these intangible assets is based on a number of factors including competitive environment, market share, trademark, brand history, underlying product life cycles, operating plans and the macroeconomic environment of the countries in which the trademarked or branded products are sold. Our estimates of the useful lives of determinable-lived intangibles are primarily based on these same factors. Determinable-lived intangible assets are amortized to expense over their estimated useful life. In some of our acquisitions, we acquire in-process research and development (IPRD) intangible assets. For acquisitions accounted for as business combinations, IPRD is considered to be an indefinite-lived intangible asset until the research is completed (then it becomes a determinable-lived intangible asset) or determined to have no future use (then it is impaired). For asset acquisitions, IPRD is expensed immediately unless there is an alternative future use. Indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill are not amortized but are tested annually for impairment or whenever events or circumstances indicate such assets may be impaired. Our annual impairment testing date is October 31. When it is unlikely that an indefinite-lived intangible asset or goodwill of a reporting unit is impaired, we perform a qualitative assessment. For goodwill, that qualitative assessment may be periodically supplemented with a corroborative quantitative analysis. When necessary, we perform a quantitative impairment test and determine the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset or reporting unit using an income approach. For the quantitative impairment test of goodwill, we corroborate our concluded value under the income approach using a market approach that utilizes trading multiples derived from a peer set of similar companies. The income approach calculates the present value of estimated future cash flows and requires certain assumptions and estimates be made regarding market conditions and our future profitability. Considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating and macroeconomic changes and to estimate future cash flows used to measure fair value. Assumptions used in our impairment evaluations, such as forecasted growth rates and cost of capital, are consistent with internal business plans. We believe such assumptions and estimates are also comparable to those that would be used by other marketplace participants. During 2022 our Spine reporting unit’s operating performance was affected by several factors, including a slower than anticipated recovery of surgery volumes as we emerged from the COVID-19 pandemic, rising costs and our competitive environment. Consequently, for the year ended December 31, 2022 revenues, gross margin and operating income were 3%, 4% and 33% below budgeted amounts. For our annual impairment test at October 31, 2022 we performed a quantitative impairment test and recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $216 in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Due to the impairment charge in 2022, we also performed a quantitative impairment test for our Spine reporting unit at October 31, 2023 and determined that its fair value exceeded its carrying amount by 10%. Accordingly, we did not record any additional impairment charges. At October 31, 2023, goodwill attributable to the Spine reporting unit was approximately $1.0 billion. In our quantitative impairment tests, the fair value of our Spine reporting unit was determined using a discounted cash flow analysis, which is a form of the income approach. Significant inputs to the analysis included assumptions for future revenue growth, operating margin and the rate used to discount the estimated future cash flows to their present value, based on the reporting unit’s estimated weighted average cost of capital. Our assumptions for revenue growth and operating margin considered several operating factors, including surgery volumes, increased costs and our competitive environment. We believe our estimates are appropriate based upon current and future market conditions and the best information available at the impairment assessment date. However, future impairment charges could be required if we do not achieve our cash flow, revenue and profitability projections or if there is an increase in the weighted average cost of capital. The assumptions used in the discounted cash flow analysis are subject to inherent uncertainties and subjectivity. The use of different assumptions, estimates or judgments with respect to the estimation of future cash flows and the determination of the discount rate used to reduce such estimated future cash flows to their net present value could materially affect the determination of any impairment charges. Hypothetical changes in our estimates of the discount rate, long-term revenue growth and long-term operating margin would result in impairment charges as follows: Historical impairment assessments for our other reporting units have indicated that their implied fair values exceed their respective carrying amounts by at least 100%. We did not identify any factors in 2023 or 2022 that would lead us to believe that those reporting units are at risk of a goodwill impairment. Accordingly, we performed qualitative assessments and concluded it was more likely than not that the fair values of those reporting units exceeded their respective carrying amounts. Future changes in the judgments, assumptions and estimates that are used in our impairment testing for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, including discount rates and cash flow projections, could result in significantly different estimates of fair value. A significant reduction in estimated fair values could result in impairment charges that could materially affect our results of operations. We review our other long-lived assets for indicators of impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The evaluation is performed at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows, which is at the individual asset level or the asset group level. The undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the related assets are estimated over their useful life based on updated projections. If the evaluation indicates that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable, any potential impairment is measured based upon the fair value of the related assets or asset group as determined by an appropriate market appraisal or other valuation technique. Assets classified as held for sale, if any, are recorded at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell. Legal and Other Contingencies We are involved in various ongoing proceedings, legal actions and claims arising in the normal course of business, including proceedings related to product, labor, intellectual property, and other matters that are more fully described in Note 7 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The outcomes of these matters will generally not be known for prolonged periods of time. In certain of the legal proceedings, the claimants seek damages, as well as other compensatory and equitable relief, that could result in the payment of significant claims and settlements and/or the imposition of injunctions or other equitable relief. For legal matters for which management had sufficient information to reasonably estimate our future obligations, a liability representing management's best estimate of the probable loss, or the minimum of the range of probable losses when a best estimate within the range is not known, for the resolution of these legal matters is recorded. The estimates are based on consultation with legal counsel, previous settlement experience and settlement strategies. If actual outcomes are less favorable than those projected by management, additional expense may be incurred, which could unfavorably affect future operating results. We are currently self-insured for certain claims and expenses. The ultimate cost to us with respect to product liability claims could be materially different than the amount of the current estimates and accruals and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Refer to Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.