********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The following discussion of “risk factors” identifies the most significant factors that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and future financial performance. This information should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes contained in this report. The following discussion of risks is not all inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are the most significant factors to consider when evaluating our business. These factors could cause our future results to differ from our expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements identified within “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and from other historical trends. Industry and General Economic Risks Our industry is characterized by low margins, and periods of significant or prolonged inflation or deflation affect our product costs and may negatively impact our profitability and results of operations. The foodservice distribution industry is characterized by relatively high inventory turnover with relatively low profit margins. Volatile food costs have a direct impact on our industry. In periods of significant product cost inflation, if we are unable to pass on all or a portion of such product cost increases to our customers in a timely manner, our results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, periods of rapidly increasing inflation may adversely affect our results of operations due to the impact of such inflation on discretionary spending by consumers and our limited ability to increase prices in the current, highly competitive environment. Conversely, our results of operations may be adversely affected by periods of product cost disinflation and deflation, because we make a significant portion of our sales at prices that are based on the cost of products we sell plus a percentage margin, mark-up or fee per case. As a result, our results of operations may be adversely affected during periods of product cost disinflation and deflation, even though our gross profit percentage may remain relatively constant. A shortage of qualified labor and increases in labor costs could adversely affect our business and materially reduce earnings . The future success of our operations, including the achievement of our strategic objectives, depends on our ability, and the ability of certain third parties on which we rely, to identify, recruit, develop and retain diverse, qualified and talented individuals. As a result, a shortage of qualified labor could adversely affect our business, decrease our ability to effectively serve our customers, and achieve our strategic objectives. We periodically experience shortages of qualified labor in certain geographies, particularly in the area of warehouse workers and drivers. Such shortages may result in increased costs from certain temporary wage actions, such as hiring, referral, and retention bonus programs. See the discussion under “Human Capital Resources” in Item 1, “Business” for additional information regarding our talent acquisition and talent management efforts in the context of these labor shortages. Unsuccessful recruiting and retention efforts as a result of such shortages for a prolonged period of time could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Labor shortages also likely lead to higher wages for employees and higher costs to purchase the services of third parties. Increases in labor costs, such as increases in minimum wage requirements, wage inflation and/or increased overtime, reduce our profitability and that of our customers. Increases in such labor costs for a prolonged period of time could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, potential changes in labor legislation and case law could result in current non-union portions of our workforce, including warehouse and delivery personnel, being subjected to greater organized labor influence. If additional portions of our workforce became subject to collective bargaining agreements, this could result in increased costs of doing business as we would become subject to mandatory, binding arbitration or labor scheduling, costs and standards, which may reduce our operating flexibility. 8 Global health developments and economic uncertainty resulting from global public health crises may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Public health crises, pandemics and epidemics could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic adversely impacted our business, results of operations and financial condition directly and disrupted the operations of our business partners, suppliers and customers. While our operations have generally stabilized since the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic, we cannot predict with certainty the extent to which our operations may be impacted in the future by any similar effects of a more severe variant of COVID-19 or other public health crises, pandemics, or epidemics on us or on our business partners, suppliers and customers. Fear of these or similar events may further alter consumer confidence, behavior and spending patterns, and could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries (or globally), resulting in an economic downturn that could affect customers’ demand for our products. In response to the outbreak of COVID-19 and its development into a pandemic, governmental authorities in many countries in which we, our customers and our suppliers were present and operated, imposed mandatory closures, sought voluntary closures and imposed restrictions on, or advisories with respect to, travel, business operations and public gatherings or interactions. Among other matters, these actions required or strongly urged various venues where foodservice products were served, including restaurants, schools, hotels and cruise liners, to reduce or discontinue operations, which adversely affected demand in the foodservice industry, including demand for our products and services. The future outbreak of a public health crisis, pandemic, or epidemic could cause some governmental authorities to reintroduce similar restrictions in the future, which could adversely affect demand in the foodservice industry. Any future outbreak of a public health crisis, pandemic, or epidemic that adversely affects our business, results of operations and financial condition, could also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent filings with the SEC, such as those risks relating to our level of indebtedness, and may have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Unfavorable macroeconomic conditions, as well as unfavorable conditions in particular local markets, may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations are susceptible to regional, national and international economic trends and uncertainties. Economic conditions can affect us in the following ways: • Unfavorable conditions can depress sales and/or gross margins in a given market. • Food cost and fuel cost inflation can lead to reductions in the frequency of dining out and the amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases, reducing demand for our products. • Heightened uncertainty in the financial markets negatively affects consumer confidence and discretionary spending. • The inability to consistently access credit markets could impair our ability to market and distribute food products, support our operations and meet our customers’ needs. • Liquidity and the inability of our customers and suppliers to consistently access credit markets to obtain cash to support their operations can cause temporary interruptions in our ability to collect funds from our customers and obtain the products and supplies that we need in the quantities and at the prices that we request. • Foreign exchange rate fluctuations can adversely impact our competitiveness and/or financial results. The countries in which we operate have experienced and are experiencing, from time to time, deteriorating economic conditions and heightened uncertainty in financial markets, which have adversely impacted business and consumer confidence and spending and depressed capital investment and economic activity in the affected regions. Such conditions and high levels of uncertainty make it difficult to predict when, or if, a recession may occur. A prolonged economic downturn or recession in the U.S. or global economies, and the impact on gross domestic product growth, corporate earnings, consumer confidence, employment rates, income levels and/or personal wealth, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to fully compensate for increases in fuel costs, and fuel hedging arrangements intended to contain fuel costs could result in above market fuel costs, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations. The cost of fuel affects the prices we pay for products, as well as the costs we incur to deliver products to our customers. We require significant quantities of fuel for our delivery vehicles and are exposed to the risk associated with fluctuations in the market price for fuel. The price and supply of fuel can fluctuate significantly based on international, political 9 and economic circumstances (such as the invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Federation (Russia)) as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. Although we have been able to pass along a portion of increased fuel costs to our customers in the past through, among other things, our fuel surcharge program, we may not be able to do so in the future. If fuel costs continue to increase in the future, we may experience difficulties in passing all or a portion of these costs along to our customers, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We routinely enter into fuel hedging arrangements, including fuel derivatives, to hedge our exposure to volatile fuel prices. Nevertheless, our fuel hedging transactions may not be effective in protecting us from changes in fuel prices. If fuel prices were to decrease significantly, these hedging arrangements would result in our paying higher-than-market costs for a portion of our diesel fuel. In addition, our future use of fuel derivatives would expose us to the risk that any of our counterparties fails to perform its obligations, whether due to its insolvency or otherwise, which could result in financial losses. Economic and political instability and changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our international operations subject us to certain risks, including economic and political instability and potential unfavorable changes in laws and regulations in international markets in which we operate. Local or regional geopolitical events, such as Brexit and, civil unrest in France in 2023 related to socioeconomic issues, have negatively impacted our operations. Similar future trade or labor disruptions or disputes could have a negative impact on our operations in the EU and other parts of the world. In addition, military conflicts, such as the invasion of Ukraine by Russia and the Israel-Hamas War, or other geopolitical events, can negatively impact global demand. In response to such conflicts, various governments can and have recently imposed export controls on certain products and financial and economic sanctions on certain industry sectors and parties, which actions can have a negative impact on our operations. Although our business has not been materially impacted to date by the ongoing invasion of Ukraine by Russia or the Israel-Hamas War, it is impossible to predict the extent to which our operations, or those of our suppliers and customers, will be impacted in the short and long term, or the ways in which the conflict may impact our business. The extent and duration of the military action, sanctions and resulting market disruptions are difficult to predict, but could be substantial. Further escalation of geopolitical tensions related to the military conflict, including increased trade barriers or restrictions on global trade, could result in, among other things, cyberattacks, supply disruptions, lower consumer demand and changes to foreign exchange rates and financial markets. Any or all of these factors could disrupt our business directly and could disrupt the business of our customers, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Any such disruptions may also magnify the impact of other risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Competition and the impact of GPOs may reduce our margins and make it difficult for us to maintain our market share, growth rate and profitability . The foodservice distribution industry is fragmented and highly competitive, with local, regional and multi-regional distributors and specialty competitors. Local and regional companies often align themselves with other smaller distributors through purchasing cooperatives and marketing groups, with the goal of enhancing their geographic reach, private label offerings, overall purchasing power, cost efficiencies and ability to meet customer distribution requirements. These suppliers may also rely on local presence as a source of competitive advantage, and they may have lower costs and other competitive advantages due to geographic proximity. Furthermore, barriers to entry by new competitors, or geographic or product line expansion by existing competitors, are low. Additionally, increased competition from non-traditional sources (such as club stores and commercial wholesale outlets with lower cost structures), online direct food wholesalers, cash and carry operations, and competitors that are utilizing technology, including artificial intelligence and machine learning technologies, have served to further increase pressure on the industry’s profit margins. Continued margin pressure within the industry may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Moreover, some of our customers purchase their products from us through group purchasing organizations (GPOs) in an effort to lower the prices paid by these customers on their foodservice orders. GPOs have a relatively larger presence in the healthcare, lodging and foodservice management customer segments. If these GPOs are able to add a significant number of our customers as members, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Finally, demand for food-away-from-home products is volatile and price sensitive, imposing limits on our customers’ ability to absorb cost increases. New and increasing competitive sources may result in increased focus on pricing and on 10 limiting price increases or may require increased discounting or other concessions. Such competition or other industry pressures may result in margin erosion and/or make it difficult for us to attract and retain customers. If we are unable to effectively differentiate ourselves from our competitors, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. In addition, even if we are able to effectively differentiate ourselves, we may only be able to do so through increased expenditures or decreased prices, which could also adversely impact our results of operations. Business and Operational Risks Conditions beyond our control can interrupt our supplies, increase our product costs and impair our ability to deliver products and services to our customers, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition . We obtain substantially all of our foodservice and related products from third-party suppliers. Although our purchasing volume can provide benefits when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not be able to provide the foodservice products and supplies that we need due to conditions outside of their control. We are also subject to delays caused by interruptions in production and increases in product costs based on conditions outside of our control. These conditions include shortages of qualified labor for our suppliers, work slowdowns, work interruptions, strikes or other job actions by employees of suppliers, short-term weather conditions or more prolonged climate change, crop and other agricultural conditions, water shortages, transportation interruptions (such as shortages of ocean cargo containers), unavailability of fuel or increases in fuel costs, product recalls, competitive demands, civil insurrection or social unrest, terrorist attacks or international hostilities (such as the invasion of Ukraine by Russia and the Israel-Hamas War) and natural disasters, epidemics, pandemics or other human or animal disease outbreaks or other catastrophic events (including, but not limited to, foodborne illnesses). Many of these conditions outside of our control could also impair our ability to provide our products and services to our customers or increase the cost of doing so. We cannot predict with certainty the extent that our operations may continue to be impacted by any similar effects of public health crises, pandemics, or epidemics on us or on our business partners, suppliers and customers. Customer demand is currently outpacing available supply in certain categories. Certain suppliers are struggling to meet demand for our orders and may also be affected by higher costs to source or produce and transport products, which impairs our ability to deliver products and services to our customers. Prolonged future supply shortages could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, increased frequency, severity, or duration of extreme weather conditions or other natural or man-made disasters, which may be from climate change, could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or adversely affect demand for our products. At any time, input costs could increase for a prolonged period for a large portion of the products that we sell. Additionally, we procure products from suppliers outside of the U.S., and we are subject to the risks associated with political or financial instability, military conflict, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs and other factors relating to foreign trade, including health and safety restrictions related to epidemics and pandemics, any or all of which could delay our receipt of products or increase our input costs. In addition, as a foodservice distributor, it is necessary for us to maintain an inventory of products. Declines in product pricing levels between the time we purchase a product from our suppliers and the time we sell the product to our customers could reduce our margin on that inventory, adversely affecting our results of operations. Climate change, or the legal, regulatory or market measures being implemented to address climate change, may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The effects of climate change may create financial and operational risks to our business, both directly and indirectly. There is an increased focus around the world by regulatory and legislative bodies at all levels towards policies relating to climate change and the impact of global warming, including the regulation of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, energy usage and sustainability efforts.  Increased compliance costs and expenses due to the impacts of climate change on our business, as well as additional legal or regulatory requirements regarding climate change or designed to reduce or mitigate the effects of carbon dioxide and other GHG emissions on the environment, may cause disruptions in, or an increase in the costs associated with, the running of our business, particularly with regard to our distribution and supply chain operations. Moreover, compliance with any such legal or regulatory requirements may require that we implement changes to our business operations and strategy, which would require us to devote substantial time and attention to these matters and cause us to incur additional costs. The effects of climate change, and legal or regulatory initiatives to address climate change, could have a long-term adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Such adverse impacts may be incurred directly through damage to our own property or equipment or indirectly if such impacts adversely affect our suppliers. In addition, from 11 time to time we establish and publicly announce goals and commitments related to corporate social responsibility matters, including those related to reducing our impact on the environment. Our current sustainability goals include to reduce our Scope 1 & 2 emissions by 27.5% by 2030 and strongly encourage suppliers representing 67% of Scope 3 emissions (focusing on purchased goods and services and upstream transportation suppliers) to set science-based targets by 2026. Our ability to meet these and other related goals depends in part on significant technological advancements with respect to the development and availability of reliable, affordable and sustainable alternative solutions, including electric and other alternative fuel vehicles as well as alternative energy sources, which may not be developed or be available to us in the timeframe needed to achieve these goals. In addition, we may determine that it is in our best interests to revise our current goals based on economic or regulatory factors, business strategy or other factors. If we change or do not meet our publicly stated goals, then we may experience a negative reaction from the media, stockholders, activists and other interested stakeholders, and any perception that we have failed to act responsibly regarding climate change, whether or not valid, could result in adverse publicity and negatively affect our business and reputation. While we remain committed to being responsive to climate change and reducing our carbon footprint, there can be no assurance that our goals and strategic plans to achieve those goals will be successful, that the costs related to climate transition will not be higher than expected, that the necessary technological advancements will occur in the timeframe we expect, or at all, or that proposed regulation or deregulation related to climate change will not have a negative competitive impact, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, methodologies for reporting climate-related information may change and previously reported information may be adjusted to reflect new reporting protocols or regulations, improvements in the availability and quality of third-party data, changing assumptions, changes in the nature and scope of our operations and other changes in circumstances. Our processes and controls for reporting climate-related information across our operations are evolving along with multiple disparate standards for identifying, measuring and reporting sustainability metrics, including disclosures that may be required by the SEC, European and other regulators, and such standards may change over time, which could result in significant revisions to our current goals, reported progress in achieving such goals, or our ability to achieve such goals in the future. Adverse publicity about us or lack of confidence in our products could negatively impact our reputation and reduce earnings. Maintaining a good reputation and public confidence in the safety of the products we distribute is critical to our business. Our brand names, trademarks, logos and reputation are powerful sales and marketing tools, and we devote significant resources to promoting and protecting them. Anything that damages our reputation or public confidence in our products, whether or not justified, could tarnish our reputation and diminish the value of our brand, which could adversely affect our results of operations, and require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. The increased use of social media may increase the likelihood and magnitude of negative publicity across media channels, regardless of its accuracy or the reputability of its source, including as a result of fictitious media content (such as content produced by generative artificial intelligence or bad actors). In addition, it may be difficult to address such negative publicity across media channels. Reports, whether true or not, of foodborne illnesses or injuries caused by food tampering could also severely injure our reputation or reduce public confidence in our products. If patrons of our restaurant customers were to become ill from foodborne illnesses, our customers could be forced to temporarily close restaurant locations, which would have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. In addition, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and image, undermine our customers’ confidence in us and reduce short-term or long-term demand for our products and services, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. Any of these developments or circumstances could adversely affect our results of operations. Our relationships with long-term customers may be materially diminished or terminated, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have long-standing relationships and agreements with a number of our customers. Some of our customer agreements are terminable upon written notice by either us or the customer, which provides some customers with the opportunity to renegotiate their contracts with us on less favorable terms or to award more business to our competitors. Market competition, customer requirements, customer financial condition and customer consolidation through mergers or acquisitions also could adversely affect our ability to continue or expand these relationships. We may not be able to retain or renew existing agreements, maintain relationships with any of our customers on acceptable terms, or at all, or collect amounts that insolvent customers might owe us. The loss of one or more of our major customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 12 Our anticipated change to the mix of locally managed customers versus multi-unit customers could reduce our gross and operating margins. Gross margin from our multi-unit customers, which includes primarily national and regional casual dining and quick service restaurant chains, is generally lower than that of our locally managed customers because we typically sell higher volumes of products to multi-unit customers and provide a relatively lower level of value-added services than we do to locally managed customers. If sales to our locally managed customers do not grow at the same (or a greater) rate as sales to our multi-unit customers, our operating margins could decline. For example, the COVID-19 pandemic generally negatively affected multi-unit customers less than locally managed customers. If our sales to multi-unit customers were to continue to increase at a faster pace of growth than sales to our locally managed customers, we will become more dependent on multi-unit customers, as they begin to represent a greater proportion of our total sales. Therefore, a future loss of sales to the larger of these multi-unit customers could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, as a result of our greater dependence on these customers, these customers could pressure us to lower our prices and/or offer expanded or additional services at the same prices. In that event, if we were unable to achieve additional cost savings to offset these price reductions and/or cost increases, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to change our cost structure and pricing practices rapidly enough to successfully compete in such an environment. Changes in consumer eating habits could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Changes in consumer eating habits (such as a decline in consuming food away from home, a decline in portion sizes, or a shift in preferences toward restaurants that are not our customers) could reduce demand for our products. Consumer eating habits could be affected by a number of factors, including changes in attitudes regarding diet and health (including shifting preferences for sustainable, organic and locally grown products, as well as alternative proteins) or new information regarding the health effects of consuming certain foods. Changing consumer eating habits also occur due to generational shifts. Millennials, the largest demographic group in terms of consumer spending, seek new and different, as well as more ethnic, menu options and menu innovation. If consumer eating habits change significantly, we may be required to modify or discontinue sales of certain items in our product portfolio, and we may experience higher costs and/or supply shortages associated with our efforts to accommodate those changes as our suppliers adapt to new eating preferences. Changing consumer eating habits may reduce the frequency with which consumers purchase meals outside of the home. Additionally, changes in consumer eating habits may result in the enactment or amendment of laws and regulations that impact the ingredients and nutritional content of our food products, or laws and regulations requiring us to disclose the nutritional content of our food products. Compliance with these laws and regulations, as well as others regarding the ingredients and nutritional content of our food products, may be costly and time-consuming. We may not be able to effectively respond to changes in consumer health perceptions or resulting new laws or regulations or to adapt our menu offerings to trends in eating habits. Expanding into new markets and complementary lines of business presents unique challenges and may not be successful, and failure to successfully expand may adversely affect the implementation of our business strategy. An element of our strategy includes further expansion of operations into new markets and the establishment of new procurement organizations. Our ability to successfully operate in these new markets may be adversely affected by political, economic and social conditions beyond our control, public health crises, epidemics and pandemics, local laws and customs, and legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with applicable anti-corruption and currency laws and regulations, of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. Risks inherent in such expansion also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of identifying and gaining access to local suppliers, suffering possible adverse tax consequences from changes in tax laws or the unfavorable resolution of tax assessments or audits, maintaining product quality and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. Our business strategy also includes the possibility of expansion into businesses that are closely related or complementary to, but not currently part of, our core foodservice distribution business. Our ability to successfully operate in these complementary business markets may be adversely affected by legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with regulatory programs to which we become subject. Risks inherent in branching out into such complementary markets also 13 include the costs and difficulties of managing operations outside of our core business, which may require additional skills and competencies, as well as difficulties in identifying and gaining access to suppliers or customers in new markets. Changes in applicable tax laws or regulations and the resolution of tax disputes could negatively affect our financial results. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes, as well as non-income-based taxes, in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate. For example: • The U.S. and many countries where we do business are actively considering or have recently enacted changes in relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations and interpretations, including changes to tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals. • On October 8, 2021, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) announced the OECD/G20 Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, which provides for a two-pillar solution to address tax challenges arising from the digitalization of the economy. Pillar One expands a country’s authority to tax profits from companies that make sales into their country but do not have a physical location in the country. Pillar Two includes an agreement on international tax reform, including rules to ensure that large corporations pay a minimum rate of corporate income tax. On December 20, 2021, the OECD released Pillar Two Model Rules defining the global minimum tax, which calls for the taxation of large corporations at a minimum rate of 15%. For Sysco, Pillar Two will be effective at the beginning of fiscal 2025. Further, in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination could change if tax laws or tax rulings were to be modified. We are also subject to non-income-based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. Although we believe that our income and non-income-based tax estimates are appropriate, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Given the unpredictability of possible further changes to the U.S. or foreign tax laws and regulations and their potential interdependency, it is very difficult to predict the cumulative effect of such tax laws and regulations on our results of operations and cash flow, but such laws and regulations (and changes thereto) could adversely impact our financial results. Additionally, we are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities as well as to the prospective and retrospective effects of changing tax regulations and legislation. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements and may materially affect our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination and settlement occurs. If our products are alleged to have caused injury or illness, or to have failed to comply with governmental regulations, we may need to recall or withdraw our products and may experience product liability claims. We, like any other foodservice distributor, may be subject to product recalls, including voluntary recalls or withdrawals, if the products we distribute are alleged to have caused injury or illness, to have been mislabeled, misbranded, or adulterated or to otherwise have violated applicable governmental regulations. We may also choose to voluntarily recall or withdraw products that we determine do not satisfy our quality standards, in order to protect our brand and reputation. Any future product recall or withdrawal that results in substantial and unexpected expenditures, destruction of product inventory, damage to our reputation and/or lost sales due to the unavailability of the product for a period of time could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We also face the risk of exposure to product liability claims if the use of products sold by Sysco is alleged to have caused injury or illness. We cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related illness in the future or that we will not be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. Further, even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image. Umbrella liability insurance that we maintain for product liability claims may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. We generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying our products, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to 14 the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. If we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability relating to defective products could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to comply with requirements imposed by applicable law or other governmental regulations, we could become subject to lawsuits, investigations and other liabilities and restrictions on our operations that could materially adversely affect our business . We are subject to various federal, state, provincial, regional and local laws, rules and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-bribery laws, anti-money laundering laws, import restrictions, responsible sourcing, and sanctions programs, in the countries in which we operate with respect to many aspects of our business, such as food safety and sanitation, ethical business practices, transportation, minimum wage, overtime, wage payment, wage and hour and employment discrimination, immigration, human health and safety. Due to the services we provide in connection with governmentally funded entitlement programs, we are also subject to additional laws and regulations. For a detailed discussion of the laws and regulations to which our business is subject, please refer to “Business – Government Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. From time to time, both federal and state governmental agencies conduct audits of various aspects of our operations, as part of investigations of providers of services under governmental contracts, or otherwise. We also receive requests for information from governmental agencies in connection with these audits. While we attempt to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, we may not be in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations at all times; moreover, we may not be able to comply with all future laws, regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations or encounter disagreements with respect to our contracts subject to governmental regulations, including those referred to above, we may be subject to investigations, criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, prohibitions on exporting, or seizures or debarments from contracting with such government. The cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance, including debarments, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, governmental units may make changes in the regulatory frameworks within which we operate that may require us to incur substantial increases in costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. We may incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations, and we may be subject to substantial fines, penalties or third-party claims for non-compliance. Our operations are subject to various federal, state, provincial, regional and local laws, rules and regulations in the various countries in which we operate relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing: • the discharge of pollutants into the air, soil, and water; • the management and disposal of solid and hazardous materials and wastes; • employee exposure to hazards in the workplace; and • the investigation and remediation of contamination resulting from releases of petroleum products and other regulated materials. In the course of our operations, we: operate, maintain and fuel fleet vehicles; store fuel on-site in above and underground storage tanks; operate refrigeration systems; and use and dispose of hazardous substances and food wastes. We could incur substantial costs, including fines or penalties and third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, as a result of any violations of environmental or workplace safety laws and regulations or releases of regulated materials into the environment. In addition, we could incur substantial investigation, remediation or other costs related to environmental conditions at our currently or formerly owned or operated properties. For example, most of our distribution facilities have ammonia-based refrigeration systems and tanks for the storage of diesel fuel and other petroleum products, which are subject to laws regulating such systems and storage tanks (including the investigation and remediation of soil and groundwater contamination associated with the use of underground storage tanks). Certain of these laws and regulations in the EU may impose liability for costs of investigation or remediation of contamination (which could be material), regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal, even if such contamination was present prior to the commencement of our operations at the site and was not caused by our activities. In addition, many of our facilities have propane and battery-powered forklifts. Proposed or recently enacted legal requirements, such as those requiring the phase- 15 out of certain ozone-depleting substances, and proposals for the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, may require us to upgrade or replace equipment, or may increase our transportation or other operating costs. If we are unable to finance and integrate acquired businesses effectively, our earnings per share could be materially adversely affected . Historically, a portion of our growth has come through acquisitions. If we are unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully or realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits and synergies in a timely manner, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Integration of an acquired business may be more difficult when we acquire a business in a market in which we have limited expertise, or with a culture different from Sysco’s. A significant expansion of our business and operations, in terms of geography or magnitude, could strain our administrative and operational resources. Significant acquisitions may also require the issuance of material additional amounts of debt or equity, which could materially alter our debt-to-equity ratio, increase our interest expense and decrease earnings per share, and make it difficult for us to obtain favorable financing for other acquisitions or capital investments. In addition, our failure to implement effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures with respect to a significant acquired business could result in material weaknesses and/or a failure to file our periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission on a timely basis. We rely on technology in our business, and any cybersecurity incident, other technology disruption or delay in implementing new technology could negatively affect our business and our relationships with customers . We use technology in substantially all aspects of our business operations, and our ability to serve customers most effectively depends on the reliability of our technology systems. We use software and other technology systems, among other things, to generate and select orders, to load and route trucks, to make purchases, to manage our warehouses and to monitor and manage our business on a day-to-day basis. We also use mobile devices, social networking and other online platforms to connect with our employees, suppliers, business partners and customers. Further, our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers’ and suppliers’ personal information, private information about employees and financial and strategic information about us and our business partners. This sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property are stored on information technology systems controlled by us, as well as systems controlled by third parties, such as our service providers. These technology systems and the operation thereof are vulnerable to disruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, power outages, systems failures, security breaches, espionage, cyber-attacks, viruses, theft and inadvertent release of information. In the normal course of business, we and our third-party providers experience cybersecurity threats and incidents of varying degrees from time-to-time, including ransomware and phishing attacks, as well as distributed denial of service attacks and the theft of data. Cyber threats are constantly evolving, are becoming more sophisticated and frequent, including through the introduction of viruses and malware (such as ransomware) and the use of artificial intelligence by the threat actors, and are being made by groups and individuals with a wide range of expertise and motives, and this increases the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. For example, as disclosed in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for our third quarter of fiscal 2023, in March 2023, Sysco became aware of a cybersecurity event perpetrated by a threat actor believed to have begun in January 2023. Immediately upon detection, Sysco initiated an investigation, with the assistance of cybersecurity and forensics professionals, determining that the threat actor had extracted certain company data, including data relating to operation of the business, customers, employees and personal data. This data extraction did not impact Sysco’s operational systems and related business functions, and its service to customers continued uninterrupted. Sysco also notified federal law enforcement and provided other required notifications. To date, cybersecurity incidents have not had a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. However, there is no assurance that there will not be a material adverse effect in the future, especially if, for example, the amount of insurance coverage we maintain is not sufficient to cover claims or liabilities relating to an incident. Potential consequences of a future material cybersecurity incident include: business disruption; disruption to systems; theft, destruction, loss, corruption, misappropriation or unauthorized release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property (including personal information in violation of one or more privacy laws); loss of revenue; reputational and brand damage; and potential liability, including litigation or other legal actions against us or the imposition by governmental authorities of penalties, fines, fees or liabilities, which, in turn, could cause us to incur significantly increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs and the loss of customers. In addition, if our suppliers or customers experience such a breach or unauthorized disclosure or system failure, their businesses could be disrupted or otherwise negatively affected. This may result in a disruption in our supply chain or reduced customer orders, which would adversely affect our business operations. We 16 have also outsourced several information technology support services and administrative functions to third-party service providers, including cloud-based service providers, and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. If these service providers do not perform effectively due to breach or system failure, we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits and our business may be disrupted. Many of our employees, contractors and other corporate partners now work remotely, increasing reliance on information technology systems that are outside our direct control. These systems are potentially vulnerable to cyber-based attacks and security breaches. In addition, cyber criminals are increasing their attacks on individual employees with business email compromise scams designed to trick victims into transferring sensitive data or funds, or steal credentials that compromise information systems. The actions and controls we have implemented and are implementing to date, or which we seek to cause or have caused third-party providers to implement, may be insufficient to protect our systems, information or other intellectual property. Further, we anticipate continuing to devote significant resources to maintaining and upgrading our security measures generally, including those we employ to protect personal information against these cybersecurity threats. Further, as we pursue our strategy to grow through acquisitions and to pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, we are also expanding and improving our information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk. Failure to adequately assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives could increase our vulnerability to such risks. Our efforts to prevent security breaches and cybersecurity incidents, and to implement effective disaster recovery plans, may not be entirely effective to insulate us from technology disruption or protect us from adverse effects on our results of operations. Additionally, information technology systems continue to evolve and, in order to remain competitive, we must implement new technologies in a timely and efficient manner. For example, we may incorporate emerging artificial intelligence solutions into our platform, offerings, services and features, and these applications may become important in our operations over time. Our failure to implement timely and/or successfully new technologies, including artificial intelligence, may adversely affect our competitiveness and, consequently, our results of operations. Our growing use of artificial intelligence systems in our operations poses inherent risks and could adversely affect our results of operations. We have and are continuing to incorporate artificial intelligence, including machine learning, in certain of our operations, such as sales, support and supply chain operations, and may in the future incorporate artificial intelligence into more of our operations, with the intent to enhance their operation and effectiveness. For example, we have incorporated artificial intelligence and/or generative artificial intelligence to manage inventory, optimize warehouse logistics, route customer deliveries more efficiently and enable more analytics for our sales consultants. Flaws, breaches or malfunctions in these systems could lead to operational disruptions, data loss, or erroneous decision-making, impacting our operations, financial condition and reputation. Legal challenges may arise, including cybersecurity incidents, non-compliance with data protection regulations, and lack of transparency. The legal and regulatory landscape and industry standards surrounding artificial intelligence technologies is rapidly evolving and remains uncertain, and compliance may impose significant operational costs and may limit our ability to develop, deploy or use artificial intelligence technologies. Furthermore, the deployment of artificial intelligence systems could expose us to increased cybersecurity threats, such as data breaches and unauthorized access leading to financial losses, legal liabilities, and reputational damage. We also face competitive risks if we fail to adopt artificial intelligence or other machine-learning technologies in a timely manner. Our failure to comply with data privacy regulations could adversely affect our business. Data privacy laws and the regulatory activity associated therewith, continue to evolve across most jurisdictions in which we operate. Given the complexity of these laws, uncertainty regarding their interpretation, application, and enforcement and the often-onerous requirements they place on businesses regarding the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer, and security of personal data, it is important for us to understand their impact and respond accordingly. Failure to comply with data privacy laws can result in substantial fines or penalties, legal liability and / or reputational damage and litigation. In the UK and Europe, the General Data Protection Regulation (the GDPR), which came into effect in 2018, places stringent requirements on companies when handling personal data. There continues to be a growing trend of other countries adopting similar laws. 17 Additionally, there continues to be significant uncertainty with respect to the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (the CCPA), which went into effect on January 1, 2020, and imposes additional obligations on companies regarding the handling of personal information and provides certain individual privacy rights to persons whose information is collected. Both the GDPR and the CCPA are continuously evolving and developing and may be interpreted and applied differently from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and may create inconsistent or conflicting requirements. For example, the California Privacy Rights Act (the CPRA), which was approved by California voters as a ballot initiative in November 2020, modifies the CCPA significantly, further enhancing and extending an individual’s rights over their personal data and the obligations placed on companies that handle this data. The resulting new regulations became effective on January 1, 2023. Most notably, employee and business data were brought into scope, which raises the compliance requirements for us significantly, in terms of internal controls, processes and governance requirements. Furthermore, since 2020, numerous other U.S. states have enacted, or are considering more stringent privacy laws, which may impose varying standards and requirements on our data collection, use and processing activities. Continued state by state introduction of privacy laws can be expected to lead to significantly greater complexity in our compliance requirements globally, which could result in complaints from data subjects and/or action from regulators and potential litigation claims. If we do not provide sufficient resources to ensure we are able to respond, adapt and implement the necessary requirements to respond, or we do not respond sufficiently to the various forthcoming changes, which could include federal data privacy requirements in the US, while continuing to maintain our compliance with global data privacy laws, this could adversely impact our reputation and we could face exposure to fines levied by regulators and class action and similar litigation risks, which could have a significant financial impact on our business. Our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and liquidity position . As described in Note 12, “Debt and Other Financing Arrangements,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, as of June 29, 2024, we had approximately $12.0 billion of total indebtedness, which primarily includes our outstanding senior notes. Additionally, we have the ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility, which supports our U.S. commercial paper program. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences for us, including: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes; • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. Our indebtedness may increase from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, working capital needs, capital expenditures, potential acquisitions, joint ventures and/or share repurchase programs. Our level of indebtedness and the ultimate cost of such indebtedness could have a negative impact on our liquidity, cost of future debt financing and financial results, and our credit ratings may be adversely affected as a result of the incurrence of additional indebtedness. A significant downgrade in our credit ratings or adverse conditions in the capital markets may increase the cost of borrowing for us or limit our access to capital. In the future, our cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our debt, and any alternative financing measures available may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. We may be required to pay material amounts under multiemployer defined benefit pension plans, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows . We contribute to several multiemployer defined benefit pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering union-represented employees. In fiscal 2024, our total contributions to these plans were approximately $63 million. The costs of providing benefits through such plans have increased in recent years. The amount of any increase or decrease in our required contributions to these multiemployer plans will depend upon many factors, including collective bargaining negotiations, actions taken by trustees who manage the plans, government regulations, changes in the funded status of these plans and the potential payment of a withdrawal liability if we, for any reason, cease to have an ongoing obligation to contribute to a given plan. Based upon the information available to us from the administrators of these plans, none of these plans have assets sufficient to fully pay their liabilities, and therefore all such plans have unfunded vested benefits. Increases in the unfunded liabilities of these plans may result in increased future contribution obligations imposed on us and on other participating employers. Under federal law, significant underfunding experienced by a given plan generally results in 18 increased contribution obligations in the form of surcharges and supplemental contribution obligations. Our risk of such increased payments may be greater if any of the participating employers in these underfunded plans withdraws from a given plan due to insolvency and is not able to contribute an amount sufficient to fund the unfunded liabilities associated with its participants in the plan. We could also be treated as partially withdrawing from participation in one of these plans if the number of our employees participating in a given plan is reduced to a certain percentage over a certain period of time, or if we cease to have an obligation to contribute under one or more, but fewer than all, of the collective bargaining agreements that require us to make contributions to a particular plan. Such reductions in the number of employees participating in these plans could occur as a result of changes in our business operations, such as facility closures or consolidations. We estimate our share of the aggregate withdrawal liability on the multiemployer plans in which we participate could have been as much as $141 million as of August 16, 2024. This estimate is based on the information available from plan administrators, which had valuation dates between February 1, 2020 and October 31, 2023. As the valuation dates for all of the plans were between February 1, 2020 and October 31, 2023, the company’s estimate reflects the condition of the financial markets as of this date range. Due to the lack of current information, management believes Sysco’s current share of the withdrawal liability could materially differ from this estimate. A significant increase in funding requirements could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our funding requirements for our company-sponsored qualified pension plan may increase should financial markets experience future declines, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows . We had a pension obligation of $2.6 billion, as compared to assets totaling $2.5 billion, as of June 29, 2024, both of which have sensitivity to financial market factors that could impact our funding requirements. See Note 14, “Company-Sponsored Employee Benefit Plans” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for a discussion of the funded status of the U.S. Retirement Plan. At the end of fiscal 2012, we decided to freeze future benefit accruals under our company-sponsored qualified pension plan (the U.S. Retirement Plan) as of December 31, 2012 for all U.S.-based salaried and non-union hourly employees. Effective January 1, 2013, these employees were eligible for additional contributions under an enhanced, defined contribution plan. The amount of our annual contribution to the U.S. Retirement Plan is dependent upon, among other things, the returns on the U.S. Retirement Plan’s assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan’s liability. We have set an investment strategy that closely aligns the duration of the U.S. Retirement Plan’s assets with the duration of its liabilities. As a result, our U.S. Retirement Plan holds a greater amount of investments in fixed income securities, but also holds equity securities. Fluctuations in asset values can cause the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase. The projected liability of the U.S. Retirement Plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets as these are inputs in determining our minimum funding requirements. Failure to successfully renegotiate union contracts could result in work stoppages, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations . As of June 29, 2024, we had approximately 76,000 employees, approximately 15% of whom were represented by unions, primarily the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and unions in France and Sweden. Approximately 16% of our union employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are subject to renegotiation in fiscal 2025. Failure to effectively renegotiate these contracts could result in work stoppages. We believe our operating sites have good relationships with their unions, but a work stoppage due to failure of multiple operating subsidiaries to renegotiate union contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Organization and Common Stock Risks Our authorized preferred stock provides anti-takeover benefits that may not be viewed as beneficial to stockholders . Under our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, our Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 1,500,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Issuance of these shares could make it more difficult for anyone to acquire Sysco without approval of our Board of Directors, depending on the rights and preferences of the stock issued. In addition, if anyone attempts to acquire Sysco without approval of our Board of Directors, the existence of this undesignated preferred stock could allow our Board of Directors to adopt a shareholder rights plan without obtaining stockholder approval, which could result in substantial dilution to a potential acquirer. As a result, hostile takeover attempts that might result in an acquisition of Sysco, which could otherwise have been financially beneficial to our stockholders, could be deterred. 19 Our amended and restated bylaws provide that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the exclusive forum for certain stockholder litigation matters, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees. Our amended and restated bylaws provide that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or, if the Court of Chancery does not have jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware) is the exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a breach of fiduciary duty, any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws, or any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, except for any action (A) as to which such court determines that there is an indispensable party not subject to the jurisdiction of such court (and the indispensable party does not consent to the personal jurisdiction of such court within 10 days following such determination), (B) which is vested in the exclusive jurisdiction of a court or forum other than such court, or (C) for which such court does not have subject matter jurisdiction. This provision may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and other employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find this provision in our amended and restated bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in any action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis of Sysco’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity and capital resources for the fiscal years ended June 29, 2024 and July 1, 2023 should be read as a supplement to our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes contained in Item 8 of this report, and in conjunction with the “Forward-looking Statements” section set forth in Part II and the “Risk Factors” section set forth in Item 1A of Part I. All discussion of changes in our results of operations from fiscal 2023 to fiscal 2022 has been omitted from this Form 10-K, but may be found in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of our Form 10-K for the year ended July 1, 2023, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 25, 2023. Overview Sysco distributes food and related products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other foodservice customers. Our primary operations are in North America and Europe. Under the accounting provisions related to disclosures about segments of an enterprise, we have combined certain operations into three reportable segments. “Other” financial information is attributable to our other operations that do not meet the quantitative disclosure thresholds. • U.S. Foodservice Operations – primarily includes (a) our U.S. Broadline operations, which distribute a full line of food products, including custom-cut meat, seafood, produce, specialty Italian, specialty imports and a wide variety of non-food products and (b) our U.S. Specialty operations, which include our FreshPoint fresh produce 24 distribution business, our Specialty Meats and Seafood Group specialty protein operations, our growing Italian Specialty platform anchored by Greco & Sons, Inc., Edward Don, acquired in the second quarter of fiscal 2024, which distributes restaurant equipment and supplies, our Asian specialty distribution company and a number of other small specialty businesses that are not material to the operations of Sysco; • International Foodservice Operations – includes operations outside of the United States (U.S.), which distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products. The Americas primarily consists of operations in Canada, Bahamas, Mexico, Costa Rica and Panama, as well as our export operations that distribute to international customers. Our European operations primarily consist of operations in the United Kingdom (U.K.), France, Ireland and Sweden; • SYGMA – our U.S. customized distribution operations serving quick-service chain restaurant customer locations; and • Other – primarily our hotel supply operations, Guest Worldwide. We estimate that we serve about 17% of an approximately $360 billion annual foodservice market in the U.S. based on industry data obtained from Technomic, Inc. (Technomic) as of the end of calendar year 2023. Technomic projects the market size to increase to approximately $370 billion by the end of calendar year 2024. From time to time, Technomic may revise the methodology used to calculate the size of the foodservice market and, as a result, our percentage can change not only from our sales results, but also from such revisions. We also serve certain international geographies that vary in size and amount of market share. According to industry sources, the foodservice, or food-away-from-home, market represents approximately 56% of the total dollars spent on food purchases made at the consumer level in the U.S. as of the end of calendar year 2023. Highlights Our fiscal 2024 results were driven by sales growth that surpassed fiscal 2023 levels by 3.3%. Sales growth was driven by both volume growth, partially from acquisitions, and inflation. We also made continued gains in overall market share in fiscal 2024. We demonstrated continued positive operating leverage, with gross profit growing faster than operating expenses, and operating income growing faster than sales. See below for a comparison of our fiscal 2024 results to our fiscal 2023 results, both including and excluding Certain Items (as defined below). Below is a comparison of results from fiscal 2024 to fiscal 2023: • Sales: ◦ increased 3.3%, or $2.5 billion, to $78.8 billion; • Operating income: ◦ increased 5.4%, or $163 million, to $3.2 billion; ◦ adjusted operating income increased 8.4%, or $271 million, to $3.5 billion; • Net earnings: ◦ increased 10.5%, or $185 million, to $2.0 billion; ◦ adjusted net earnings increased 6.0%, or $123 million, to $2.2 billion; • Basic earnings per share: ◦ increased 11.7%, or $0.41, to $3.90 from the comparable prior year amount of $3.49 per share; • Diluted earnings per share: ◦ increased 12.1%, or $0.42, to $3.89 from the comparable prior year amount of $3.47 per share; ◦ adjusted diluted earnings per share were $4.31 in fiscal 2024, a $0.30 increase from the comparable prior year amount of $4.01 per share; • EBITDA: ◦ increased 12.7%, or $457 million, to $4.0 billion; and ◦ adjusted EBITDA increased 9.0%, or $346 million, to $4.2 billion. The discussion of our results includes certain non-GAAP financial measures, including EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, that we believe provide important perspective with respect to underlying business trends. Other than EBITDA and free cash flow, any non-GAAP financial measures will be denoted as adjusted measures to remove (1) restructuring charges; (2) expenses associated with our various transformation initiatives; (3) severance charges; and (4) acquisition-related costs consisting of: (a) intangible amortization expense and (b) acquisition costs and due diligence costs related to our acquisitions. Our results for fiscal 2023 were also impacted by a pension settlement charge that resulted from the purchase of a 25 nonparticipating single premium group annuity contract that transferred defined benefit plan obligations to an insurer, adjustments to our bad debt reserve specific to aged receivables existing prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, adjustments to a product return allowance related to COVID-related personal protection equipment inventory and a gain on a litigation financing agreement. The fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023 items discussed above are collectively referred to as “Certain Items.” The results of our operations can be impacted by changes in exchange rates applicable to converting from local currencies to U.S. dollars. We measure our results on a constant currency basis. Our discussion below of our results includes certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe provide important perspective with respect to underlying business trends. Other than free cash flow, any non-GAAP financial measures will be denoted as adjusted measures and exclude the impact from Certain Items, and certain metrics are stated on a constant currency basis. Management believes that adjusting its operating expenses, operating income, other (income) expense, net earnings and diluted earnings per share to remove these Certain Items, provides an important perspective with respect to our underlying business trends and results. Additionally, it provides meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors that (1) is indicative of the performance of the company’s underlying operations, (2) facilitates comparisons on a year-over-year basis and (3) removes those items that are difficult to predict and are often unanticipated and that, as a result, are difficult to include in analysts’ financial models and our investors’ expectations with any degree of specificity. The company uses these non-GAAP measures when evaluating its financial results as well as for internal planning and forecasting purposes. These financial measures should not be used as a substitute for GAAP measures in assessing the company’s results of operations for periods presented. An analysis of any non-GAAP financial measure should be used in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. Any metric within this section referred to as “adjusted” will reflect the applicable impact of Certain Items. More information on the rationale for the use of these measures and reconciliations to GAAP numbers can be found under “Non-GAAP Reconciliations.” Key Performance Indicators Sysco seeks to meet its strategic goals by continually measuring its success in its key performance metrics that drive stakeholder value through sales growth and capital allocation and deployment. We believe the following are our most significant performance metrics in our current business environment: • Adjusted operating income growth (non-GAAP); • Adjusted diluted earnings per share growth (non-GAAP); • Adjusted EBITDA (non-GAAP); • Case volume growth for U.S. Foodservice and International Foodservice operations; • Sysco brand penetration for U.S. Broadline operations; and • Free cash flow (non-GAAP). We use these financial metrics and related computations, as well as sales and gross profit growth, to evaluate our business and to plan for near and long-term operating and strategic decisions. We believe it is useful to provide investors with the same financial information that we use internally to make comparisons of our historical operating results, identify trends in our underlying operating results and evaluate our business. Key Financial Definitions • Sales – Sales are equal to gross sales subtracted by, (1) sales returns and (2) sales incentives that we offer to certain customers, such as upfront monies and discounts. Our sales are driven by changes in case volumes and product inflation that is reflected in the pricing of our products and mix of products sold. • Gross profit – Gross profit is equal to our net sales subtracted by our cost of goods sold. Cost of goods sold primarily includes inventory costs (net of supplier consideration) and inbound freight. Cost of goods sold generally changes as we incur higher or lower costs from our suppliers and as our customer and product mix changes. 26 Adjusted Operating Income and Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share Growth Adjusted operating income represents our consolidated operating income, adjusted for the impact of Certain Items that we do not consider representative of our underlying performance. Adjusted diluted earnings per share represents our consolidated diluted earnings per share, adjusted for the impact of Certain Items that we do not consider representative of our underlying performance. Sysco’s management considers growth in these metrics to be useful measures of operating efficiency and profitability as they facilitate comparison of performance on a consistent basis from period to period by providing a measurement of recurring factors and trends affecting our business. Adjusted EBITDA EBITDA represents net earnings plus: (1) interest expense, (2) income tax expense and benefit, (3) depreciation and (4) amortization. The net earnings component of our EBITDA calculation is impacted by Certain Items that we do not consider representative of our underlying performance. As a result, in the non-GAAP reconciliations below for each period presented, adjusted EBITDA is computed as EBITDA plus the impact of Certain Items, excluding Certain Items related to interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Sysco’s management considers growth in this metric to be a measure of overall financial performance that provides useful information to management and investors about the profitability of the business. It facilitates comparison of performance on a consistent basis from period to period by providing a measurement of recurring factors and trends affecting our business. Additionally, it is a commonly used component metric used to inform on capital structure decisions. Case Volume Growth for U.S. Foodservice and International Foodservice Operations Case volume represents the volume of products sold to customers during a period of time and improvements in this metric are a primary driver of Sysco’s top line performance. We define a case as the lowest level of packaged products that are sold from our warehouses, with one case potentially containing several pieces of a product packaged in bulk. Case size does not generally vary by location or from period to period due to the design of our warehouses but can vary within our international operations. Case volume growth is calculated by dividing the change in the volume of cases sold year-over-year by the volume of cases sold in the prior year. Sysco management considers case volume growth within its U.S. Foodservice and International Foodservice operations to be a measure that provides useful information to management and investors in evaluating sales performance and as an indicator of gross margin performance. Management monitors case volume growth by customer type, with bifurcation between local customers and national customers, as this provides a measure of gross profit performance due to the pricing strategies attached to each customer type. Local customers are primarily street customers, such as independent restaurants that do not have long-term contracts, or locally managed customers, such as local chain restaurants, while national customers are the multi-unit customers requiring national coverage from a customer-centric view and are managed centrally from our Global Support Center, specific to U.S. Foodservice. Sysco management seeks to drive higher case volume growth to local customers, which allows more favorable pricing terms for these operations and generates higher gross margins as a result. National customers benefit from purchasing power as they are able to negotiate pricing agreements across multiple businesses reducing our gross profit potential, but reducing our overall cost per case, as national customers have bigger drop sizes. While overall case volume growth reflects a key component of sales growth, local customer case growth provides additional context around gross profit performance. Sysco Brand Penetration for U.S. Broadline Operations Sysco management considers Sysco brand penetration to be a measure that provides useful information to management and investors in evaluating the gross profit performance of the company’s U.S. Broadline operations. Sysco offers an assortment of Sysco-branded products which are differentiated from privately branded products. These Sysco Branded products enable us to achieve higher gross margin by administering and leveraging a consolidated product procurement program for quality food and non-food products. Due to cost efficiencies, Sysco-branded products generate a higher gross margin than sales from other privately branded products. We define Sysco brand penetration as the percentage of Sysco-branded case volume sold to U.S. Broadline customers over all cases sold to U.S. Broadline customers. It is calculated by dividing Sysco-branded case volume sold to U.S. Broadline customers by total cases sold to U.S. Broadline customers. This performance indicator, also measured at the customer type level, including local and national customers, is driven by growth in the distribution of Sysco branded products to more customers and more geographies, as well as increasing Sysco branded offerings through innovation and the launch of new products. Free Cash Flow 27 Free cash flow represents net cash provided from operating activities, subtracted by purchases of plant and equipment, added to proceeds from sales of plant and equipment. Sysco management considers free cash flow to be a non-GAAP liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business after the purchases and sales of buildings, fleet, equipment and technology, which may potentially be used to pay for, among other things, strategic uses of cash, including dividend payments, share repurchases and acquisitions. However, free cash flow may not be available for discretionary expenditures as it may be necessary that we use it to make mandatory debt service or other payments. Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, consolidated net income as a measure of our performance and net cash provided by operating activities as a measure of our liquidity. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” for discussions of GAAP metrics, including net cash provided by operating activities and our reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure. Trends Economic and Industry Trends During fiscal 2024, Sysco continued to outperform the foodservice market and successfully grew its market share, despite the foodservice market experiencing negative year-over-year foot traffic to restaurants. We expect negative foot traffic trends to continue into the first quarter of fiscal 2025, with modest industry traffic improvements in the second half of fiscal 2025. We believe the food-away-from-home sector is a healthy long-term market, and Sysco is diversified and well positioned as a market leader in food service. Sales and Gross Profit Trends Our sales and gross profit performance are influenced by multiple factors including price, volume, inflation, customer mix and product mix. The most significant factor affecting performance in fiscal 2024 was volume growth, as we experienced a 3.1% improvement in U.S. Foodservice case volume and a 1.1% improvement in local case volume within our U.S. segment in each instance as compared to fiscal 2023. U.S. Foodservice case volume increased 3.5% and local case volume within our U.S. segment increased 0.7% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024, as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023. This volume reflects our broadline and specialty businesses, except for our specialty meats business, which measures its volume in pounds. Edward Don positively impacted our U.S. Foodservice volumes by 2.7% and local case volumes within our U.S. segment by 1.6% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024. Within our International Foodservice segment, we experienced a 5.3% improvement in local case volume compared to fiscal 2023. This growth enabled us to gain market share during fiscal 2024, as we grew more than 1.75 times the market, which exceeded our target of 1.5 times. Product cost inflation has also been a driver of our sales and gross profit performance. We experienced inflation at a rate of 1.6% and 1.5% in the fourth quarter and for fiscal 2024, respectively, at the total enterprise level, primarily driven by inflation in the poultry and meat categories. We have been successful in managing inflation, resulting in an increase in gross profit dollars. Gross margin decreased one basis point in the fourth quarter and increased 25 basis points for fiscal 2024, as compared to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily driven by higher volumes, the effective management of inflation and progress from our strategic sourcing efforts in our U.S. and International segments. We expect to grow our revenue and earnings in fiscal 2025. We expect the rate of inflation for fiscal 2025 to be approximately 2%, which is consistent with recent trends experienced in fiscal 2024. Volume growth is expected to be in the low single-digits for fiscal 2025. In total, we expect these factors to result in net sales growth across the enterprise of 4% to 5%. Operating Expense Trends Total operating expenses increased 4.5% during fiscal 2024, as compared to fiscal 2023, driven by increased volumes and cost inflation. We continued to experience supply chain productivity improvements and successfully managed operating expenses at our Global Support Center, which experienced an expense decrease of 7% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024, as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023. We expect to have continued improvement in our operating leverage in fiscal 2025, based on a continuation of the productivity improvements from fiscal 2024 across our supply chain, including sustained retention improvements, and lower Global Support Center expenses. We believe the advancements we are making in our physical capabilities, and the investments we are making in improved training, will result in continued supply chain productivity improvements and in lowered costs to serve our customers. Income Tax Trends 28 Our provision for income taxes primarily reflects a combination of income earned and taxed in the various U.S. federal and state as well as foreign jurisdictions. Tax law changes, increases or decreases in book versus tax basis differences, accruals or adjustments of accruals for unrecognized tax benefits or valuation allowances, and our change in the mix of earnings from these taxing jurisdictions all affect the overall effective tax rate. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2024 was 23.8% and is expected to increase to approximately 25% in fiscal 2025 due to an increase in the global minimum tax rate, geographic mix, and increases in state tax rates. Mergers and Acquisitions We continue to focus on mergers and acquisitions as a part of our growth strategy. We plan to grow our existing businesses, while cultivating new channels, new business lines and new capabilities. In the first quarter of fiscal 2024, we acquired BIX Produce Company, a leading produce specialty distributor based in Minnesota. This acquisition is expected to provide a strategic opportunity for specialty produce operations to expand its geographic footprint in an area of the country where it does not currently have operations. This company’s results are included within the U.S. Foodservice Operations segment. In the second quarter of fiscal 2024, we acquired Edward Don, one of the largest kitchen equipment and supplies distributors, based in Chicago, Illinois. Edward Don has a robust supply chain that is expected to enable cost effective distribution of restaurant equipment and supplies. This acquisition further demonstrates our Recipe for Growth strategy of focusing on building strategic specialty platforms that help us better support restaurant and hospitality customers. This company’s results are included within the U.S. Foodservice Operations segment. In the third quarter of fiscal 2024, we acquired Ready Chef, a fresh produce distributor in Ireland. This company’s results are included within the International Foodservice Operations segment. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024, we acquired Jacmar Foodservice Distribution, a premier foodservice distribution provider based in California. This company’s results are included within the U.S. Foodservice Operations segment. The results of our acquired companies in fiscal 2024 were not material to our results. Strategy Our purpose is “Connecting the World to Share Food and Care for One Another.” Purpose driven companies are believed to perform better, and we believe our purpose will assist us to grow substantially faster than the foodservice distribution industry and deliver profitable growth through our “Recipe for Growth” transformation. This growth transformation is supported by strategic pillars that we believe will continue to enable us to better serve our customers, including: • Digital – We have and will continue to enrich the customer experience through personalized digital tools that reduce friction in the purchase experience and introduce innovation to our customers. • Products and Solutions – We are providing customer-focused marketing and merchandising solutions that inspire increased sales of our broad assortment of fair priced products and services. We continue to improve our merchandising strategies globally to secure the best possible cost for our customers. • Supply Chain – We are efficiently and consistently serving customers with the products they need, when and how they need them, through a flexible delivery framework. We are developing a more nimble, accessible and productive supply chain that is better positioned to support our customers. • Customer Teams – Our greatest strength is our people - people who are passionate about food and food service. Our diverse team delivers expertise and differentiated services designed to help our customers grow their businesses. We will continue to invest in the sales organization through incremental sales colleagues and intend to improve the effectiveness by leveraging data to increase the yield of the sales process. • Future Horizons – We are committed to responsible growth. We will cultivate new channels, new segments, and new capabilities, organically and through strategic M&A, while being stewards of our company and our planet for the long term. We will fund our journey through cost-out and efficiency improvements. 29 Results of Operations The following table sets forth the components of our consolidated results of operations expressed as a percentage of sales for the periods indicated: The following table sets forth the change in the components of our consolidated results of operations expressed as a percentage increase or decrease over the comparable period in the prior year: 30 Segment Results The following represents our results by reportable segments: Our U.S. Foodservice Operations and our International Foodservice Operations segments represent a substantial majority of our total segment results when compared to other reportable segments. In fiscal 2024, U.S. Foodservice Operations and International Foodservice Operations represented approximately 70.2% and 18.5%, respectively, of Sysco’s overall sales, compared to 70.3% and 17.8%, respectively, in fiscal 2023. In fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023, U.S. Foodservice Operations represented approximately 88.3% and 89.4%, respectively, of the total segment operating income. See Note 21, “Business Segment Information,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for more information. Cost of sales primarily includes our product costs, net of vendor consideration, and includes in-bound freight. Operating expenses include the costs of facilities, product handling, delivery, selling and general and administrative activities. Fuel surcharges are reflected within sales and gross profit; fuel costs are reflected within operating expenses. Along with sales, operating income is the most relevant measure for evaluating segment performance and allocating resources, as operating income includes cost of goods sold in addition to the costs to warehouse and deliver goods, which are significant and relevant costs when evaluating a distribution business. Results of U.S. Foodservice Operations In fiscal 2024, the U.S. Foodservice Operations operating results represented approximately 70.2% of Sysco’s overall sales and 88.3% of the aggregated operating income of Sysco’s reporting segments. Several factors contributed to these higher operating results as compared to the other operating segments. We invested substantial amounts in assets, operating methods, technology and management expertise in this segment. The breadth of its sales force, geographic reach of its distribution area and its purchasing power enable this segment to generate its relatively stronger results of operations. 31 The following table sets forth a summary of the components of operating income and adjusted operating income expressed as a percentage increase or decrease over the prior year: Sales The following table sets forth the percentage and dollar value increase or decrease in sales over the prior year in order to demonstrate the cause and magnitude of change. The sales growth in our U.S. Foodservice Operations was driven by higher inflation and volume growth, inclusive of benefits from acquisitions in fiscal 2024. Case volumes from our U.S. Foodservice Operations increased 3.1%, as compared to fiscal 2023. This included a 1.1% increase in local customer case volume as compared to fiscal 2023. Operating Income The increase in operating income for fiscal 2024, as compared to fiscal 2023, was driven by gross profit dollar growth and case volume growth as a result of acquisitions, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses. Gross profit dollar growth was driven primarily by case volume growth as a result of acquisitions, effective management of product cost fluctuations, and progress from our strategic sourcing efforts. The estimated change in product costs, an internal measure of inflation or deflation, increased in fiscal 2024. For fiscal 2024, this change in product costs was primarily driven by inflation in the poultry and meat categories. Sysco brand penetration for U.S. Broadline decreased by 19 basis points to 36.7% for fiscal 2024, as compared to fiscal 2023. Specific to local customers, Sysco brand penetration for U.S. Broadline improved by 11 basis points to 47.0% for fiscal 2024, as compared to fiscal 2023. Gross margin, which is gross profit as a percentage of sales, was 19.4% in fiscal 2024. This was an increase of 5 basis points compared to gross margin of 19.3% in fiscal 2023 due to the effective management of inflation, along with specific efforts to optimize our gross profit dollars. This included pricing and sourcing improvements. 32 The increase in operating expenses for fiscal 2024, as compared to fiscal 2023, was primarily driven by increased volumes and recent costs associated with severances, transformation projects, and acquisitions. Results of International Foodservice Operations In fiscal 2024, the International Foodservice Operations operating results represented approximately 18.5% of Sysco’s overall sales. The following table sets forth a summary of the components of operating income and adjusted operating income expressed as a percentage increase or decrease over the prior year: Sales The following table sets forth the percentage and dollar value increase or decrease in sales over the comparable prior year period in order to demonstrate the cause and magnitude of change. Sales in fiscal 2024 were higher due to inflation, a positive impact of foreign currency translation, and an improvement in local case volume. Operating Income 33 The $61 million increase in operating income for fiscal 2024, as compared to fiscal 2023, was primarily a result of the continuing increase in sales and specific efforts to optimize our gross profit. This included the ability to effectively manage product cost fluctuations and progress from our strategic sourcing efforts. The increase in gross profit dollars in fiscal 2024, as compared to fiscal 2023, was attributable to the increase in sales volume, the effective management of inflation, and progress from our strategic sourcing efforts. The increase in operating expenses for fiscal 2024, as compared to fiscal 2023, was primarily due to increases in sales volume, inflation, and the impact of foreign currency translation. Results of SYGMA and Other Segment For SYGMA, sales were 1.0% lower in fiscal 2024, as compared to fiscal 2023. Operating income increased by $16 million in fiscal 2024, as compared to fiscal 2023, due to decreases in operating expenses driven by the planned exit of customers. We expect SYGMA to have both sales and operating income growth in fiscal 2025. For the operations that are grouped within our Other segment, sales were 5.1% lower in fiscal 2024, as compared to fiscal 2023. Operating income decreased $17 million in fiscal 2024, as compared to fiscal 2023. The operations of this group mainly consist of our hospitality business, Guest Worldwide. We expect our Other segment to have modest operating income growth in fiscal 2025. Global Support Center Expenses Our Global Support Center generally includes all expenses of the corporate office and Sysco’s shared service operations. These expenses increased $13 million in fiscal 2024, or 1.3% as compared to fiscal 2023, primarily due to increases in self-insurance reserves, depreciation expense, miscellaneous expenses, partially offset by decreases in fuel hedging program expenses, colleague-related costs, and professional fees. Included in Global Support Center expenses are Certain Items that totaled $81 million in fiscal 2024, as compared to $45 million in fiscal 2023. Certain Items impacting fiscal 2024 were primarily expenses associated with severances, our business technology transformation initiatives, and expenses associated with acquisitions. In fiscal 2023, Certain Items that impacted the year were primarily expenses associated with our business technology transformation initiatives. Interest Expense Interest expense increased $80 million for fiscal 2024, as compared to fiscal 2023, primarily due to new issuances of senior notes, an increase in commercial paper borrowing activity and increased interest rates on borrowings. This higher debt is primarily associated with our acquisition of Edward Don and share repurchases. We expect to incur $650 million in interest expense in fiscal 2025. Consistent with fiscal 2024, we expect to operate within our stated target of 2.5 to 2.75 times of net leverage in fiscal 2025. Other income and expense Other expense decreased $197 million for fiscal 2024, as compared to fiscal 2023, primarily due to fiscal 2023 consisting of a pension settlement charge, partially offset by a gain on a litigation financing agreement. Net Earnings Net earnings increased 10.5% in fiscal 2024, as compared to fiscal 2023, due primarily to the items noted previously for operating income and interest expense, as well as items impacting our income taxes that are discussed in Note 19, “Income Taxes,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Adjusted net earnings, excluding Certain Items, increased 6.0% in fiscal 2024, primarily due to an increase in sales volume as a result of acquisitions. 34 Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per share in fiscal 2024 were $3.90, an 11.7% increase from the comparable prior year period amount of $3.49 per share. Diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2024 were $3.89, a 12.1% increase from the comparable prior year period amount of $3.47 per share. Adjusted diluted earnings per share, excluding Certain Items (which is a non-GAAP financial measure for which a reconciliation is provided in “Non-GAAP Reconciliations” on the subsequent page), in fiscal 2024 were $4.31, a 7.5% increase from the comparable prior year period amount of $4.01 per share. These results were primarily attributable to the factors discussed previously related to net earnings in fiscal 2024. 35 Non-GAAP Reconciliations 36 37 38 Set forth below is a reconciliation by segment of actual operating expenses and operating income to adjusted results for these measures for the periods presented (dollars in millions): 39 40 EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA should not be used as a substitute for the most comparable GAAP measure in assessing Sysco’s overall financial performance for the periods presented. An analysis of any non-GAAP financial measure should be used in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. See “Key Performance Indicators” for further discussion regarding this non-GAAP financial measure. Set forth below is a reconciliation of actual net earnings (loss) to EBITDA and to adjusted EBITDA results for the periods presented (dollars in millions): Liquidity and Capital Resources Highlights Below are comparisons of the cash flows from fiscal 2024 to fiscal 2023: • Cash flows from operations were $3.0 billion in fiscal 2024, compared to $2.9 billion in fiscal 2023; • Net capital expenditures totaled $753 million in fiscal 2024, compared to $751 million in fiscal 2023; • Free cash flow was $2.2 billion in fiscal 2024, compared to $2.1 billion in fiscal 2023 (see “Cash Flows – Free Cash Flow – Non-GAAP Reconciliation” below for an explanation of this non-GAAP financial measure); • Cash used for acquisition of businesses was $1.2 billion in fiscal 2024, compared to $37 million in fiscal 2023; 41 • Dividends paid were $1.0 billion in fiscal 2024, compared to $996 million in fiscal 2023; • Cash paid for treasury stock repurchases was $1.2 billion in fiscal 2024, compared to $500 million in fiscal 2023; • We issued senior notes totaling $1.0 billion in fiscal 2024. We repaid senior notes in the amount of $549 million in fiscal 2023; and • The commercial paper amount outstanding as of the end of fiscal 2024 was $200 million. There were no commercial paper amounts outstanding as of the end of fiscal 2023. As of June 29, 2024, there were no borrowings outstanding under our long-term revolving credit facility and the company had approximately $3.5 billion in cash and available liquidity. As of August 16, 2024, the company had approximately $2.5 billion in cash and available liquidity. Sources and Uses of Cash Sysco generates cash in the U.S. and internationally. Sysco’s strategic objectives include continuous investment in our business; these investments are funded primarily by cash from operations and, to a lesser extent, external borrowings. Traditionally, our operations have produced significant cash flow and, due to our strong financial position, we believe that we will continue to be able to effectively access capital markets, as needed. Cash generated from operations is generally allocated to: • working capital-investments; • capital investments in facilities, systems, fleet, other equipment and technology; • acquisitions consistent with our growth strategy; • debt repayments; • cash dividends; and • share repurchases. Any remaining cash generated from operations may be invested in high-quality, short-term instruments. As a part of our ongoing strategic analysis, we regularly evaluate business opportunities, including potential acquisitions and sales of assets and businesses, and our overall capital structure. Any transactions resulting from these evaluations may materially impact our liquidity, borrowing capacity, leverage ratios and capital availability. We continue to be in a strong financial position based on our balance sheet and operating cash flows; however, our liquidity and capital resources can be influenced by macro-economic trends and conditions that impact our results of operations. We believe our mechanisms to manage working capital, such as actively working with customers to receive payments on receivables, optimizing inventory levels and maximizing payment terms with vendors, have been sufficient to limit a significant unfavorable impact on our cash flows from operations. We believe these mechanisms will continue to mitigate any unfavorable impact on our cash flows from operations arising from macro-economic trends and conditions. We extend credit terms to some of our customers based on our assessment of each customer’s creditworthiness. We monitor each customer’s account and will suspend shipments if necessary. In the ordinary course of business, customers periodically negotiate extended payment terms on trade accounts receivable. The company may utilize purchase arrangements with third-party financial institutions to transfer portions of our trade accounts receivable balance on a non-recourse basis in order to extend terms for the customer without negatively impacting our cash flow. The arrangements meet the requirements for the receivables transferred to be accounted for as sales. See Note 1, “Summary of Accounting Policies,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for additional information. As of June 29, 2024, we had $696 million in cash and cash equivalents, approximately 91% of which was held by our international subsidiaries and generated from our earnings of international operations. If these earnings were transferred among countries or repatriated to the U.S., such amounts may be subject to withholding and additional foreign tax obligations. Additionally, Sysco Corporation has provided intercompany loans to certain of its international subsidiaries. When interest and principal payments are made, some of this cash will move to the U.S. 42 Our wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary (the Captive) must maintain a sufficient level of liquidity to fund future reserve payments. As of June 29, 2024, the Captive held $126 million of fixed income marketable securities and $249 million of restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents in a restricted investment portfolio in order to meet solvency requirements. We purchased $33 million in marketable securities in fiscal 2024 and received $29 million in proceeds from the sale of marketable securities in the period. Cash Requirements Our cash requirements within the next twelve months include accounts payable and accrued liabilities, current maturities of long-term debt, other current liabilities, purchase commitments and other obligations. We expect the cash required to meet these obligations to be primarily generated through a combination of cash from operations and access to capital from financial markets. Our long-term cash requirements under our various contractual obligations and commitments include: • Debt Obligations and Interest Payments – See Note 12, “Debt and Other Financing Arrangements,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for further detail of our debt and the timing of expected future principal and interest payments. • Operating and Finance Leases – See Note 13, “Leases,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for further detail of our obligations and the timing of expected future payments. • Deferred Compensation – The estimate of the timing of future payments under the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan and Management Savings Plan involves the use of certain assumptions, including retirement ages and payout periods. See Note 14, “Company-Sponsored Employee Benefit Plans,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for further detail of our obligations and the timing of expected future payments. • Purchase and Other Obligations – Purchase obligations include agreements for purchases of product in the normal course of business for which all significant terms have been confirmed, including minimum quantities resulting from our category management process. Such amounts are based on estimates. Purchase obligations also include amounts committed with various third-party service providers to provide information technology services and warehouse management services for periods up to fiscal 2036. See discussion under Note 20, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Purchase obligations exclude full requirements electricity contracts where no stated minimum purchase volume is required. • Other Liabilities – These include other long-term liabilities reflected in our consolidated balance sheets as of June 29, 2024, including obligations associated with certain employee benefit programs, unrecognized tax benefits and various long-term liabilities which have some inherent uncertainty in the timing of these payments. • Contingent Consideration – Certain acquisitions involve contingent consideration typically payable only if certain operating results are attained or certain outstanding contingencies are resolved. We believe the following sources will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next twelve months while maintaining sufficient liquidity for normal operating purposes: • our cash flows from operations; • the availability of additional capital under our existing commercial paper programs, supported by our revolving credit facility; and • our ability to access capital from financial markets, including issuances of debt securities, either privately or under our shelf registration statement filed with the SEC. Due to our strong financial position, we believe that we will continue to be able to effectively access the commercial paper market and long-term capital markets if necessary. 43 Cash Flows Operating Activities We generated $3.0 billion in cash flows from operations in fiscal 2024, compared to cash flows from operations of $2.9 billion in fiscal 2023. In fiscal 2024, these amounts included year-over-year favorable comparisons on working capital of $21 million due to a favorable comparison on accounts receivable of $161 million, partially offset by an unfavorable comparison on accounts payable and inventory of $92 million and $48 million, respectively. Accrued expenses also had an unfavorable comparison of $34 million, primarily related to accrued payroll and earnout liabilities. Income taxes negatively impacted cash flows from operations by $36 million, as estimated payments made were higher than in fiscal 2023. Tax relief provided by the IRS related to the effects of severe storms in Texas that began on April 26, 2024 resulted in the deferral of approximately $85 million of fiscal 2024 fourth quarter U.S. federal estimated tax payments to the second quarter of fiscal 2025. Investing Activities Fiscal 2024 and Fiscal 2023 capital expenditures included: • buildings and building improvements; • fleet replacements; • investments in technology; and • warehouse equipment. The following table sets forth the company’s total plant and equipment additions: Our capital expenditures in fiscal 2024 were $39 million higher than in fiscal 2023, as we made investments to advance our Recipe for Growth strategy. Consistent with fiscal 2024, we expect our capital expenditures in fiscal 2025 to be approximately 1.0% of sales. During fiscal 2024, we paid $1.2 billion, net of cash acquired, for acquisitions. During fiscal 2023, we paid $37 million, net of cash acquired, for acquisitions. Free Cash Flow Our free cash flow for fiscal 2024 increased by $119 million, to $2.2 billion, as compared to fiscal 2023, principally as a result of an increase in cash flows from operations, partially offset by a year-over-year increase in capital expenditures. 44 Non-GAAP Reconciliation Free cash flow should not be used as a substitute for the most comparable GAAP measure in assessing the company’s liquidity for the periods presented. An analysis of any non-GAAP financial measure should be used in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. See “Key Performance Indicators” for further discussion regarding this non-GAAP financial measure. In the table that follows, free cash flow for each period presented is reconciled to net cash provided by operating activities. Financing Activities Equity Transactions Proceeds from exercises of share-based compensation awards were $120 million and $79 million in fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023, respectively. The level of option exercises, and thus proceeds, will vary from period to period and is largely dependent on movements in our stock price and the time remaining before option grants expire. We have traditionally engaged in share repurchase programs to allow Sysco to continue offsetting dilution resulting from shares issued under the company’s benefit plans and to make opportunistic repurchases. In May 2021, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program to authorize the repurchase of up to $5.0 billion of the company’s common stock which will remain available until fully utilized. We repurchased 16,128,932 shares for $1.2 billion during fiscal 2024. As of June 29, 2024, we had a remaining authorization of approximately $2.8 billion. We expect to complete approximately $1 billion in share repurchases in fiscal 2025. As of August 16, 2024, we have repurchased 862,718 additional shares for approximately $63 million under this authorization. We have made dividend payments to our shareholders in each fiscal year since our company’s inception. Dividends paid in fiscal 2024 were $1.0 billion, or $2.00 per share, as compared to $996 million, or $1.96 per share, in fiscal 2023. In April 2024, we declared our regular quarterly dividend for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024 of $0.51 per share, a $0.01 per share increase from the prior quarter, which was paid in July 2024. In August 2021, we filed a universal shelf registration statement with the SEC under which we, as a well-known seasoned issuer, have the ability to issue and sell an indeterminate amount of various types of debt and equity securities. The specific terms of any securities we issue under this registration statement, which we expect to replace with a new universal shelf registration statement to be filed shortly after this Form 10-K, will be provided in the applicable prospectus supplements. In November 2000, we filed with the SEC a shelf registration statement covering 30,000,000 shares of common stock to be offered from time to time in connection with acquisitions. As of August 16, 2024, 29,477,835 shares remained available for issuance under this registration statement. Debt Activity and Borrowing Availability Our debt activity, including issuances and repayments, and our borrowing availability is described in Note 12, “Debt and Other Financing Arrangements,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Our outstanding borrowings at June 29, 2024, and repayment activity since the end of fiscal 2024 are disclosed within those notes. Updated amounts at August 16, 2024, include: • No outstanding borrowings from the long-term revolving credit facility supporting our commercial paper programs; • $1.0 billion outstanding borrowings under our U.S. commercial paper program; and • $132 million outstanding borrowings under our commercial paper program in Europe. 45 Our aggregate commercial paper issuances and short-term bank borrowings had weighted average interest rates of 5.49% for fiscal 2024 and 4.10% for fiscal 2023. The availability of financing in the form of debt is influenced by many factors, including our profitability, free cash flows, debt levels, credit ratings, debt covenants and economic and market conditions. A s of August 16, 2024, Moody’s Investors Service has assigned us an unsecured debt credit rating of Baa1 and a ratings outlook of “stable.” Standard & Poor’s has assigned us an unsecured debt credit rating of BBB and a ratings outlook of “stable.” Fitch Ratings Inc. has assigned us an unsecured debt credit rating of BBB and a ratings outlook of “stable.” A significant downgrade in our credit ratings or adverse conditions in the capital markets may increase the cost of borrowing for us or limit our access to capital. To date, we have not experienced difficulty accessing the credit markets. As of August 16, 2024, the company had approximately $2.5 billion in cash and available liquidity. Our long-term revolving credit facility includes aggregate commitments of the lenders thereunder of $3.0 billion with an option to increase such commitments to $4.0 billion. The facility includes a covenant, among others, requiring Sysco to maintain a ratio of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense of 3.0 to 1.0 over four consecutive fiscal quarters. The revolving credit facility expires on April 29, 2027. As of June 29, 2024, Sysco was in compliance with all of its debt covenants and the company expects to remain in compliance through the next twelve months. Sysco’s U.S. commercial paper dealer agreement includes an issuance allowance for an aggregate amount not to exceed $3.0 billion. Our commercial paper dealer agreement in Europe includes an issuance allowance for an aggregate amount not to exceed €250 million. Any outstanding commercial paper balances are classified within long-term debt, as the programs are supported by the long-term revolving credit facility. Guarantor Summarized Financial Information On January 19, 2011, the wholly owned U.S. Broadline subsidiaries of Sysco Corporation, which distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products, entered into full and unconditional guarantees of all outstanding senior notes and debentures of Sysco Corporation. A list of the current guarantors is included in Exhibit 22 to this Form 10-K. All subsequent issuances of senior notes and debentures in the U.S. and borrowings under the company’s $3.0 billion long-term revolving credit facility have also been guaranteed by these subsidiaries, as discussed in Note 12, “Debt and Other Financing Arrangements,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. As of June 29, 2024, Sysco had a total of $10.5 billion in senior notes, debentures and borrowings under the long-term revolving credit facility that were guaranteed by these subsidiary guarantors. Our remaining consolidated subsidiaries (non-guarantor subsidiaries) are not obligated under the senior notes indenture, debentures indenture or our long-term revolving credit facility. All subsidiary guarantors are 100% owned by the parent company, all guarantees are full and unconditional, and all guarantees are joint and several. The guarantees rank equally and ratably in right of payment with all other existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the respective guarantors. The assets of Sysco Corporation consist principally of the stock of its subsidiaries. Therefore, the rights of Sysco Corporation and the rights of its creditors to participate in the assets of any subsidiary upon liquidation, recapitalization or otherwise will be subject to the prior claims of that subsidiary’s creditors, except to the extent that claims of Sysco Corporation itself and/or the claims of those creditors themselves may be recognized as creditor claims of the subsidiary. Furthermore, the ability of Sysco Corporation to service its indebtedness and other obligations is dependent upon the earnings and cash flow of its subsidiaries and the distribution or other payment to it of such earnings or cash flow. If any of Sysco Corporation’s subsidiaries becomes insolvent, the direct creditors of that subsidiary will have a prior claim on its assets. Sysco Corporation’s rights and the rights of its creditors, including the rights of a holder of senior notes as an owner of debt securities, will be subject to that prior claim unless Sysco Corporation or such noteholder, if such noteholder’s debt securities are guaranteed by such subsidiary, also is a direct creditor of that subsidiary. The guarantee of any subsidiary guarantor with respect to a series of senior notes or debentures may be released under certain customary circumstances. If we exercise our defeasance option with respect to the senior notes or debentures of any series, then any subsidiary guarantor effectively will be released with respect to that series. Further, each subsidiary guarantee will remain in full force and effect until the earliest to occur of the date, if any, on which (1) the applicable subsidiary guarantor shall consolidate with or merge into Sysco Corporation or any successor of Sysco Corporation or (2) Sysco Corporation or any successor of Sysco Corporation consolidates with or merges into the applicable subsidiary guarantor. 46 Basis of Preparation of the Summarized Financial Information The summarized financial information of Sysco Corporation (issuer), and certain wholly owned U.S. Broadline subsidiaries (guarantors) (together, the obligor group) is presented on a combined basis with intercompany balances and transactions between entities in the obligor group eliminated. Investments in and equity in the earnings of our non-guarantor subsidiaries, which are not members of the obligor group, have been excluded from the summarized financial information. The obligor group’s amounts due to, amounts due from and transactions with non-guarantor subsidiaries have been presented in separate line items, if they are material to the obligor financials. The following table includes summarized financial information of the obligor group for the periods presented. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, sales and expenses in the accompanying financial statements. Significant accounting policies employed by Sysco are presented in the notes to the financial statements. Critical accounting estimates are those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial position and results of operations. These policies require our most subjective or complex judgments, often employing the use of estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. We have reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors the development and selection of the critical accounting estimates and this related disclosure. Our most critical accounting estimates pertain to the goodwill and intangible assets, income taxes and company-sponsored pension plans. 47 Goodwill and Intangible Assets We account for acquired businesses using the acquisition method of accounting, which requires that once control of a business is obtained, 100% of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values. We use multiple valuation methods to determine the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. For intangible assets, we generally use the income method which uses a forecast of the expected future net cash flows associated with each asset. These cash flows are then adjusted to present value by applying an appropriate discount rate that reflects the risk factors associated with the cash flow streams. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in the income method or other methods include the amount and timing of projected future cash flows and the discount rate selected to measure the risks inherent in the future cash flows. Determining the useful life of an intangible asset also requires judgment, as different types of intangible assets will have different useful lives. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. More information on our acquisitions can be found in Note 4, “Acquisitions,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Annually in our fiscal fourth quarter, we assess the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles by determining whether the fair values exceed the carrying values of these assets. Impairment reviews, outside our annual review time frame, are performed if events or circumstances occur that include changes in macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, overall financial performance, other relevant entity-specific events, specific events affecting the reporting unit or sustained decrease in share price. Our testing may be performed utilizing either a qualitative or quantitative assessment; however, if a qualitative assessment is performed and we determine that the fair value of a reporting unit is more likely than not ( i.e. , a likelihood of more than 50 percent) to be less than its carrying amount, a quantitative test is performed. When using a quantitative test, we arrive at our estimates of fair value using a combination of discounted cash flow and earnings or revenue multiple models. The results from each of these models are then weighted and combined into a single estimate of fair value for each reporting unit. We use a higher weighting for our discounted cash flow valuation compared to the earnings multiple models because the forecasted operating results that serve as a basis for the analysis incorporate management’s outlook and anticipated changes for the businesses consistent with a market participant. The primary assumptions used in these various models include future cash flow estimates of the reporting units which are dependent on internal forecasts and projected growth rates, weighted average cost of capital, working capital and capital expenditure requirements, along with earnings multiples of acquisitions completed by Sysco and those estimated of comparable acquisitions in the industry, including control premiums. When possible, we use observable market inputs in our models to arrive at the fair values of our reporting units. Certain reporting units have a greater proportion of goodwill recorded to estimated fair value as compared to the U.S. Foodservice Operations, Canada Broadline or SYGMA reporting units. This is primarily due to these businesses having been more recently acquired, and as a result there has been less history of organic growth than in the U.S. Foodservice Operations, Canadian Broadline and SYGMA reporting units. As such, these reporting units have a greater risk of future impairment if their operations were to suffer a significant downturn. Goodwill totals $3.1 billion for our U.S. Foodservice Operations, Canada Broadline and SYGMA reporting units, with $2.1 billion remaining for our other reporting units. In our annual fiscal 2024 assessment, we concluded that all reporting units had a fair value that exceeded book value, and no reporting units were at risk of impairment. We estimated the fair value of these reporting units using a combination of discounted cash flow and earnings or revenue multiple models. For the purposes of the discounted cash flow models, fair value was determined based on the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at an appropriate risk adjusted rate. Our fair value conclusions as of June 29, 2024 for the reporting units are sensitive to changes in the assumptions used in the income approach which include forecasted revenues, perpetual growth rates, and long-term discount rates, among others, all of which require significant judgments by management. Fair value of the reporting unit is, therefore, determined using significant unobservable inputs, or level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. We used recent historical performance, current forecasted financial information, and broad-based industry and economic statistics as a basis to estimate the key assumptions utilized in the discounted cash flow model. These key assumptions are inherently uncertain and require a high degree of estimation and judgment and are subject to change based on actual results, industry and global economic and geo-political conditions, and the timing and success of the implementation of current strategic initiatives. The fair value estimates of two of our more significant reporting units, with total goodwill of $1.4 billion, are more sensitive to changes in significant assumptions, including changes in projected cash flows or weighted average cost of capital. 48 Income Taxes The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Our provision for income taxes primarily reflects a combination of income earned and taxed in the various U.S. federal and state as well as foreign jurisdictions. Tax law changes, increases or decreases in book versus tax basis differences, accruals or adjustments of accruals for unrecognized tax benefits or valuation allowances, and our change in the mix of earnings from these taxing jurisdictions all affect the overall effective tax rate. Certain of our operations have carryforward attributes, such as operating losses. If these operations do not produce sufficient income, it could lead to the recognition of valuation allowances against certain deferred tax assets in the future if losses occur or growth is insufficient beyond our current expectations. This would negatively impact our income tax expense, net earnings, and balance sheet. Our liability for unrecognized tax benefits contains uncertainties because management is required to make assumptions and to apply judgment in estimating the exposures associated with our various filing positions. We believe that the judgments and estimates discussed herein are reasonable; however, actual results could differ, and we may be exposed to losses or gains that could be material. To the extent we prevail in matters for which a liability has been established, or pay amounts in excess of recorded liabilities, our effective income tax rate in a given financial statement period could be materially affected. An unfavorable tax settlement generally would require use of our cash and may result in an increase in our effective income tax rate in the period of resolution. A favorable tax settlement may be recognized as a reduction in our effective income tax rate in the period of resolution. During the third quarter of fiscal 2023, Sysco received a Statutory Notice of Deficiency from the Internal Revenue Service, mainly related to foreign tax credits generated in fiscal 2018 from repatriated earnings primarily from our Canadian operations. On April 18, 2023, during the company’s fourth fiscal quarter, the company filed suit in the U.S. Tax Court challenging the validity of certain tax regulations related to the one-time transition tax on unrepatriated foreign earnings, which was enacted as part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA). The lawsuit seeks to have the court invalidate these regulations, which would affirm the company’s position regarding its foreign tax credits. Sysco previously recorded a benefit of $131 million attributable to its interpretation of the TCJA and the Internal Revenue Code. If the company is ultimately unsuccessful in defending its position, it may be required to reverse all, or some portion, of the benefit previously recorded. Company-Sponsored Pension Plans Amounts related to defined benefit plans recognized in the financial statements are determined on an actuarial basis. Two of the more critical assumptions in the actuarial calculations are the discount rate for determining the current value of plan benefits and the expected rate of return on plan assets. Our U.S. Retirement Plan is largely frozen and is only open to a small number of employees. Our Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP) is frozen and is not open to any employees. None of these plans have a significant sensitivity to changes in discount rates s pecific to our results of operations, but such changes could impact our balance sheet due to a change in our funded status. Due to the low level of active employees in our retirement plans, our assumption for the rate of increase in future compensation is n ot a critical assumption. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets was 5.50% for fiscal 2024. The expectations of future returns are derived from a mathematical asset model that incorporates assumptions as to the various asset class returns reflecting a combination of historical performance analysis, the forward-looking views of the financial markets regarding the yield on bonds, historical returns of the major stock markets, and returns on alternative investments. The rate of return assumption is reviewed annually and revised as deemed appropriate. The expected return on plan assets impacts the recorded amount of net pension costs. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets of the U.S. Retirement Plan is 5.63% for fiscal 2025. A 25 basis point increase (decrease) in the assumed rate of return in the Plan for fiscal 2025 would decrease (increase) Sysco’s net company-sponsored pension costs for fiscal 2025 by approximately $6 million. Pension accounting standards require the recognition of the funded status of our defined benefit plans in the Statement of Financial Position, with a corresponding adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. The amount reflected in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to the recognition of the funded status of our defined benefit plans as of June 29, 2024 was a charge, net of tax, of $917 million. The amount reflected in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to the recognition of the funded status of our defined benefit plans as of July 1, 2023 was a charge, net of tax, of $840 million. 49 Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements made herein that look forward in time or express management’s expectations or beliefs with respect to the occurrence of future events are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Forward-looking statements can also be identified by words such as “future,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “predicts,” “will,” “would,” “could,” “can,” “may,” “projected,” “continues,” “continuously,” variations of such terms, and similar terms and phrases denoting anticipated or expected occurrences or results. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about: • our expectations of an improving market over the course of fiscal 2025; • our expectations regarding the ability of our supply chain and facilities to remain in place and operational; • our plans regarding our transformation initiatives and the expected effects from such initiatives, including the Sysco Driver Academy; • statements regarding uncollectible accounts, including that if collections continue to improve, additional reductions in bad debt expense could occur; • our expectations that our Recipe for Growth strategy will allow us to better serve our customers and differentiate Sysco from our competition; • our expectations regarding our fiscal 2025 sales and our rate of sales growth in fiscal 2025 and the three years of our long-range plan; • our expectations regarding the impact of inflation on sales, gross margin rates and gross profit dollars; • our expectations regarding gross margins in fiscal 2025; • our plans regarding cost savings, including our target for cost savings through fiscal 2025 and the impact of costs savings on the company; • our belief that our purpose will allow us to grow substantially faster than the foodservice distribution industry and deliver profitable growth through our Recipe for Growth transformation, and statements regarding our plans with respect to our strategic pillars that support this growth transformation; • our expectations regarding the use and investment of remaining cash generated from operations; • the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets of the U.S. Retirement Plan; • the sufficiency of our available liquidity to sustain our operations for multiple years; • estimates regarding the outcome of legal proceedings; • the impact of seasonal trends on our free cash flow; • estimates regarding our capital expenditures and the sources of financing for our capital expenditures; • our expectations regarding the impact of potential acquisitions and sales of assets on our liquidity, borrowing capacity, leverage ratios and capital availability; • our expectations regarding real sales growth in the U.S. foodservice market and trends in produce markets; • our expectations regarding the calculation of adjusted return on invested capital, adjusted operating income, adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted earnings per share; • our expectations regarding the impact of future Certain Items on our projected future non-GAAP and GAAP results; • our expectations regarding our effective tax rate in fiscal 2025; • the sufficiency of our mechanisms for managing working capital and competitive pressures, and our beliefs regarding the impact of these mechanisms; 50 • our ability to meet future cash requirements, including the ability to access financial markets effectively, including issuances of debt securities, and maintain sufficient liquidity; • our expectations regarding the payment of dividends, and the growth of our dividend, in the future; • our expectations regarding future activity under our share repurchase program; • future compliance with the covenants under our revolving credit facility; • our ability to effectively access the commercial paper market and long-term capital markets; and • our intention to repay our long-term debt with cash on hand, cash flow from operations, issuances of commercial paper, issuances of senior notes, or a combination thereof. These statements are based on management’s current expectations and estimates; actual results may differ materially due in part to the risk factors set forth below and those within Part I, Item 1A of this document: • the risk that if sales from our locally managed customers do not grow at the same rate as sales from multi-unit customers, our gross margins may decline; • periods of significant or prolonged inflation or deflation and their impact on our product costs and profitability generally; • the risk that we are unlikely to be able to predict inflation over the long term, and lower inflation is likely to produce lower gross profit; • the risk that our efforts to modify truck routing, including our small truck initiative, in order to reduce outbound transportation costs may be unsuccessful; • the risk that we may not be able to accelerate and/or identify additional administrative cost savings in order to compensate for any gross profit or supply chain cost leverage challenges; • risks related to unfavorable conditions in the Americas and Europe and the impact on our results of operations and financial condition; • the risks related to our efforts to implement our transformation initiatives and meet our other long-term strategic objectives, including the risk that these efforts may not provide the expected benefits in our anticipated time frame, if at all, and may prove costlier than expected; • the impact of unexpected future changes to our business initiatives based on management’s subjective evaluation of our overall business needs; • the risk that the actual costs of any business initiatives may be greater or less than currently expected; • the risk that competition in our industry and the impact of GPOs may adversely impact our margins and our ability to retain customers and make it difficult for us to maintain our market share, growth rate and profitability; • the risk that our relationships with long-term customers may be materially diminished or terminated; • the risk that changes in consumer eating habits could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations; • the impact and effects of public health crises, pandemics and epidemics, and the adverse impact thereof on our business, financial condition and results of operations; • the risk that changes in applicable tax laws or regulations and the resolution of tax disputes could negatively affect our financial results; • the risk that we may not be able to fully compensate for increases in fuel costs, and forward purchase commitments intended to contain fuel costs could result in above market fuel costs; • the risk of interruption of supplies and increase in product costs as a result of conditions beyond our control; 51 • the potential impact on our reputation and earnings of adverse publicity or lack of confidence in our products; • risks related to unfavorable changes to the mix of locally managed customers versus corporate-managed customers; • the risk that we may not realize anticipated benefits from our operating cost reduction efforts; • difficulties in successfully expanding into international markets and complimentary lines of business; • the potential impact of product liability claims; • the risk that we fail to comply with requirements imposed by applicable law or government regulations; • risks related to our ability to effectively finance and integrate acquired businesses; • risks related to our access to borrowed funds in order to grow and any default by us under our indebtedness that could have a material adverse impact on cash flow and liquidity; • our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and liquidity position; • the risk that the implementation of various initiatives, the timing and successful completion of acquisitions, construction schedules and the possibility that other cash requirements could result in delays or cancellations of capital spending; • the risk that divestiture of one or more of our businesses may not provide the anticipated effects on our operations; • the risk that future labor disruptions or disputes could disrupt the integration of Brake France and Davigel into Sysco France and our operations in France and the EU generally; • the risk that factors beyond management’s control, including fluctuations in the stock market, as well as management’s future subjective evaluation of the company’s needs, would impact the timing of share repurchases; • due to our reliance on technology, any technology disruption or delay in implementing new technology could have a material negative impact on our business; • the risk of negative impacts to our business and our relationships with customers from a cybersecurity incident and/or other technology disruptions; • the risk that changes in the method of determining LIBOR, or the replacement of LIBOR with an alternative reference rate, may adversely affect interest expense related to outstanding debt; • the potential requirement to pay material amounts under our multiemployer defined benefit pension plans; • our funding requirements for our company-sponsored qualified pension plan may increase should financial markets experience future declines; • labor issues, including the renegotiation of union contracts and shortage of qualified labor; • capital expenditures may vary based on changes in business plans and other factors, including risks related to the implementation of various initiatives, the timing and successful completion of acquisitions, construction schedules and the possibility that other cash requirements could result in delays or cancellations of capital spending; • the risk that the anti-takeover benefits provided by our preferred stock may not be viewed as beneficial to stockholders; and • the risk that the exclusive forum provisions in our amended and restated bylaws could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees. You should carefully consider these risks, as well as the additional risks described in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. New risks emerge from time to time and it is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in, or implied by, any forward-looking statements. 52 In light of the significant risks and uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that such results will be achieved, and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to revise the forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. You should read this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents we file with the SEC, with the understanding that our actual future results, levels of activity, performance and achievements may be materially different from what we expect. We qualify all of our forward-looking statements by the cautionary statements referenced above.