********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our securities. These risks are not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to general risks that affect many other companies. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations, financial condition, and liquidity . Risks Relating to the Macroeconomic Environment and Our Global Presence Conditions in global or regional economies, capital and money markets, and banking systems, and cyclical industry demand may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. Our business and operating results have been and will continue to be affected by economic conditions regionally or globally, including new or increased tariffs and other barriers to trade, including escalation of trade tensions between the United States (“U.S.”), China, the EU, and other countries, changes to fiscal and monetary policy, inflation, slower growth or recession, higher interest rates, labor disruptions, the cost and availability of consumer and business credit, end demand from consumer and industrial markets, significant bank failures, government shutdowns, and concerns as to sovereign debt levels including credit rating downgrades and defaults on sovereign debt. Any of these economic factors could cause our customers to experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow, financial condition, and ability to obtain financing. As a result, existing or potential customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may not be able to fulfill their obligations to us in a timely fashion or in full. Further, our vendors may experience similar problems, which may impact their ability to fulfill our orders or meet agreed service and quality levels. If regional or global economic conditions deteriorate, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Also, deterioration in 7 economic conditions, expectations for future revenue, projected future cash flows, or other factors have triggered and could trigger additional recognition of impairment charges for our goodwill or other long-lived assets. Impairment charges, if any, may be material to our results of operations and financial position. Foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results. Our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in U.S. dollars; however, a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the U.S. Changes in the relative values of currencies may have a significant effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. We are exposed to the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on our costs and revenue. Approximately 60% of our net sales for fiscal 2023 were invoiced in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and we expect non-U.S. dollar revenue to continue to represent a significant portion of our future net sales. We have elected not to hedge this foreign currency exposure. Therefore, when the U.S. dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of the countries where we sell our products, such as the euro or Asian currencies, our U.S. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease. In recent years, the strength of the U.S. dollar has generally increased as compared to other currencies, which has had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our operating results as reported in U.S. dollars. We manage certain cash, intercompany, and other balance sheet currency exposures in part by entering into financial derivative contracts. In addition to the risk of non-performance by the counterparty to these contracts, our efforts to manage these risks might not be successful. We have suffered and could continue to suffer business interruptions, including impacts resulting from pandemics, weather conditions, and natural catastrophic events, including those caused or intensified by climate change and global warming, and other macroeconomic factors. Our operations and those of our suppliers and customers, and the supply chains that support their operations, have been and may be in the future vulnerable to interruption by natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, typhoons, tornados, or floods, which may be exacerbated by the effects of climate change; other disasters such as fires, explosions, acts of terrorism, or war, including the continuing military conflict between Russia and Ukraine resulting from Russia’s invasion of Ukraine or escalating tensions in surrounding countries; disease or other adverse health developments, including impacts resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic; or failures of management information or other systems due to internal or external causes. These events could cause some of our operations to suffer from supply chain disruptions and potential delays in fulfilling customer orders or order cancellations altogether, lost business and sales, changing costs or availability of insurance, and/or property damage or harm to our people, each and all of which could have an adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, such interruptions could result in a widespread crisis that could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, resulting in an economic downturn that could affect demand for our end customers’ products. If a business interruption occurs and we are unsuccessful in our continuing efforts to minimize the impact of these events, our business, results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The COVID-19 pandemic had a global impact and resulted in business slowdowns or shutdowns, including systemic disruptions of global supply chains. While the pandemic impacted certain aspects of our business, the extent to which the pandemic will continue to impact our business and the markets we serve will depend on future developments which may include the resurgence of the spread of the virus and variant strains of the virus as well as the success of public health advancements. Certain of our operations in China were impacted in early fiscal 2023 and were shut down for a period of time in fiscal 2022; however, we do not expect the pandemic to have a significant impact on our businesses globally in the near term. We could be adversely affected by a decline in the market value of our pension plans’ investment portfolios or a reduction in returns on plan assets. Concerns about deterioration in the global economy, together with concerns about credit, inflation, or deflation, have caused and could continue to cause significant volatility in the price of all securities, including fixed income and equity securities, which has reduced and could further reduce the value of our pension plans’ investment portfolios. In addition, the expected returns on plan assets may not be achieved. A decrease in the value of our pension plans’ investment portfolios or a reduction in returns on plan assets could require us to significantly increase funding of such obligations, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. 8 Disruption in credit markets and volatility in equity markets may affect our ability to access sufficient funding. The global equity markets have been volatile and at times credit markets have been disrupted, which has reduced the availability of investment capital and credit. Downgrades of sovereign debt credit ratings have similarly affected the availability and cost of capital. As a result, we may be unable to access adequate funding to operate and grow our business. Our inability to access adequate funding or to generate sufficient cash from operations may require us to reconsider certain projects and capital expenditures. The extent of any impact will depend on several factors, including our operating cash flows, the duration of tight credit conditions and volatile equity markets, our credit ratings and credit capacity, the cost of financing, and other general economic and business conditions. Global political, economic, and military instability could negatively affect sales or profitability. Our workforce; manufacturing, research, administrative, and sales facilities; markets; customers; and suppliers are located throughout the world. As a result, we are exposed to risks that could negatively affect sales or profitability, including: We have sizeable operations in China, including 17 principal manufacturing sites. In addition, approximately 20% of our net sales in fiscal 2023 were made to customers in China. Economic conditions in China have been, and may continue to be, volatile and uncertain. In addition, the legal and regulatory system in China continues to evolve and is subject to change. There also continues to be significant uncertainty about the relationship between the U.S. and China, including with respect to geopolitics, trade policies, treaties, government regulations, and tariffs. The current political climate has intensified concerns about trade tensions between the U.S. and China in connection with each country’s recent or proposed tariffs on the other country’s products. Accordingly, our operations and transactions with customers in China could be adversely affected by changes to market conditions, changes to the regulatory environment, increased trade barriers, tariffs, or restrictions, or interpretation of Chinese law. In addition, any further downgrade by rating agencies of long-term U.S. sovereign debt or downgrades or defaults of sovereign debt of other nations may negatively affect global financial markets and economic conditions, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition, and liquidity. 9 U.S. federal tax laws could result in adverse consequences to U.S. persons treated as owning 10% or more of our shares. Although we are a Swiss corporation, application of certain U.S. tax law ownership attribution rules may cause non-U.S. subsidiaries to be treated as Controlled Foreign Corporations (“CFCs”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A U.S. person that is treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as owning, directly, indirectly, or constructively, 10% or more of our shares may be required to annually report and include in its U.S. taxable income its pro rata share of certain types of income earned by our subsidiaries that are treated as CFCs, whether or not we make any distributions to such U.S. shareholder. A U.S. person that owns 10% or more of our shares should consult a tax adviser regarding the potential implications. The risk of U.S. federal income tax reporting and compliance obligations with respect to our subsidiaries that are treated as CFCs may deter our current shareholders from increasing their investment in us, and others from investing in us, which could impact the demand for, and value of, our shares. We are subject to, and may continue to be subject to, incremental costs, risks, and regulations associated with efforts to combat the negative effects of climate change. There is increased public awareness regarding climate change. This increased focus has led to international treaties and agreements and legislative and regulatory efforts. We may also be subject to larger, global climate change initiatives, laws, regulations, or orders, such as any laws or regulations to implement the Paris Climate Agreement, which seek to reduce GHG emissions. In addition to government requirements, our customers are also increasingly imposing climate-related requirements on their suppliers, including us. Any failure, or perceived failure, to comply with these requirements may result in reduced demand for our products, reputational harm, or other adverse impacts to our business. Any future regulations relating to GHG emissions and/or other climate change-related laws and regulations, beyond initiatives we already have in process, could subject us to additional and/or unforeseen compliance costs and limitations, increased energy and raw material costs, and incremental capital expenditure requirements. Also, there may be additional mandatory climate-related reporting obligations, and potentially GHG emissions reduction requirements, which would likely result in increased corporate and operational general and administrative efforts and associated costs and expenses. Any future regulatory changes in any of the countries in which we operate could result in transition risks to us, including, but not limited to: (i) the nature and timing of any requirement to lower GHG emissions and adopt more energy-efficient energy use, which could result in changes or disruptions to the way we operate, (ii) financial risks where the compliance with such regulations requires unforeseen capital expenditures and becomes costly or financially burdensome, (iii) legal risks associated with the failure to adapt to or comply with future climate change-related regulations, (iv) risks of climate litigation associated with our disclosures and/or operations; (v) risks associated with the implementation of any new technologies required to comply with such regulations, which could impede our ability to innovate new products, meet customer and market demand, or compete on pricing and quality in the market, and/or (vi) reputational risks associated with our customers’ and investors’ perceptions of us and their preferences for maintaining relationships with companies with lower emissions, all of which could harm our reputation in the marketplace. Increasing scrutiny and expectations regarding environmental, social, and governance (“ESG”) matters could result in additional costs or risks or otherwise adversely impact our business. Companies across industries are facing increasing scrutiny from a variety of stakeholders related to their ESG and sustainability practices. Expectations regarding voluntary and potential mandatory ESG initiatives and disclosures may result in increased costs, changes in demand for certain products, enhanced compliance or disclosure obligations, or other adverse impacts to our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Further, our ability to achieve our current and future ESG goals is uncertain and remains subject to numerous risks, including evolving regulatory requirements and stakeholder expectations, our ability to recruit, develop, and retain a diverse workforce, the availability of suppliers and other business partners that can meet our ESG expectations, the growth of our business, cost considerations, and the development and availability of cost-effective technologies or resources that support our goals. An inability to receive or maintain favorable ESG ratings could negatively impact our reputation or impede our ability to compete as effectively to attract and retain employees or customers, which may adversely impact our operations. Unfavorable ESG ratings could also lead to negative investor sentiment towards us or our industry, which could negatively impact the price of our shares as well as our access to and cost of capital. 10 Risks Relating to the Industry in Which We Operate We are dependent on the automotive and other industries and significant periodic downturns have had material adverse effects on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. We are dependent on end market dynamics to sell our products, and our operating results could be adversely affected by cyclical and reduced demand in these markets. Periodic downturns in our customers’ industries can significantly reduce demand for certain of our products, which has in the past and could have in the future a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. Approximately 43% of our net sales for fiscal 2023 were to customers in the automotive industry. The automotive industry is dominated by large manufacturers that can exert significant price pressure on their suppliers. Additionally, the automotive industry has historically experienced significant downturns during periods of deteriorating global or regional economic or credit conditions. As a supplier of automotive electronics products, our sales of these products and our profitability have been and could continue to be negatively affected by significant declines in global or regional economic or credit conditions and changes in the operations, products, business models, part-sourcing requirements, financial condition, and market share of automotive manufacturers, as well as potential consolidations among automotive manufacturers. Further, work stoppages or slowdowns experienced by our customers in the automotive industry could result in slowdowns or closures of assembly plants where our products are included in assembled vehicles. During fiscal 2023, approximately 11% of our net sales were to customers in the industrial equipment end market and approximately 10% of our net sales were to customers in the commercial transportation end market. Demand in the industrial equipment industry is dependent upon economic conditions, including customer investment in factory and warehouse automation, process control systems, and building automation and smart city infrastructure, as well as market conditions in the rail transportation, lighting, and other major industrial markets we serve. The commercial transportation industry is impacted by the economic environment and market conditions in the heavy truck, construction, agriculture, and recreational vehicle markets. We encounter competition in substantially all areas of the electronic components industry, which has and could in the future negatively impact our prices, margins, and market share. We operate in highly competitive markets for electronic components and expect that both direct and indirect competition will increase in the future. Our overall competitive position depends on various factors including the price, quality, and performance of our products; the level of customer service; the development of new technology; our ability to participate in emerging markets; and customers’ expectations relating to socially responsible operations. The competition we experience across product lines from other companies ranges in size from large, diversified manufacturers to small, highly specialized manufacturers. The electronic components industry has become increasingly concentrated and globalized in recent years, and our major competitors have significant financial resources and technological capabilities. A number of these competitors compete with us primarily on price and in some instances may have the benefit of lower production costs for certain products. We cannot provide assurance that additional competitors will not enter our markets or that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. Increased competition has and may in the future result in price reductions, reduced margins, or loss of market share, any of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. We are dependent on market acceptance of our new product introductions and product innovations for future revenue and failure of such introductions or innovations in a timely manner could cause our operating results to suffer. Substantially all markets in which we operate are impacted by technological change or change in consumer tastes and preferences, which are rapid in certain end markets. Our operating results depend substantially upon our ability to continually design, develop, introduce, and sell new and innovative products; to modify existing products; and to customize products to meet customer requirements driven by such change. There are numerous risks inherent in these processes, including the risk that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that we will be unable to develop and market profitable new products and applications in time to satisfy customer demands. 11 The pace of technological change continues to accelerate and our ability to react effectively to such change may present significant competitive risks. The pace of technological change is increasing at an exponential rate. The continued creation, development, and advancement of new technologies such as artificial intelligence, blockchain, quantum computing, data analytics, 3-D printing, robotics, sensor technology, data storage, neural networks, and augmented reality, as well as other technologies in the future that are not foreseen today, continue to transform our processes, products, and services. In order to remain competitive, we will need to stay abreast of such technologies, require our employees to continue to learn and adapt to new technologies, be able to integrate them into our current and future business models, products, services, and processes, and also guard against existing and new competitors disrupting their business using such technologies. Our strategy, value creation model, operating model, and innovation ecosystem have important technological elements and certain of our products and offerings are based on technological advances, including artificial intelligence, machine learning, advanced analytics, and the Internet of Things. Increasing use of artificial intelligence may expose us to social and ethical issues, which may result in reputational harm and liability. In addition, we will need to compete for talent in a competitive market that is familiar with such technologies including upskilling our workforce. There can be no assurance we will continue to compete effectively with our industry peers due to technological changes, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Continuing pressure to lower our prices has and may in the future result in price erosion. We have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, continuing pressure to lower our prices. Although pricing actions positively impacted our net sales in both fiscal 2023 and 2022, we have historically experienced price erosion averaging from 1% to 2% each year. To maintain our margins, we must continue to reduce our costs by similar amounts. We cannot provide assurance that continuing pressures to reduce our prices will not have a material adverse effect on our margins, results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. We may be negatively affected as our customers and vendors continue to consolidate. Many of the industries to which we sell our products, as well as many of the industries from which we buy materials, have become more concentrated in recent years, including the automotive, data and devices, and aerospace and defense industries. Consolidation of customers may lead to decreased product purchases from us. In addition, as our customers buy in larger volumes, their volume buying power has increased, enabling them to negotiate more favorable pricing and find alternative sources from which to purchase. Our materials suppliers similarly have increased their ability to negotiate favorable pricing. These trends have and may continue to adversely affect the margins on our products, particularly for commodity components. The life cycles of certain of our products can be very short and may not result in material revenue and may cause us to write off excess or obsolete inventory or equipment. The life cycles of certain of our products can be very short relative to their development cycle. As a result, the resources devoted to product sales and marketing may not result in material revenue and, from time to time, we may need to write off excess or obsolete inventory or equipment. If we were to incur significant engineering expenses and investments in inventory and equipment that we were not able to recover and we were not able to compensate for those expenses, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability, warranty, and product recall claims that may be brought against us. We face exposure to product liability and warranty claims in the event that our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected, or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in death, bodily injury, and/or property damage. Further, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to participate in a recall campaign, and a customer or other party may hold us responsible for some or all of the costs of these campaigns. Actual or alleged defects in our products may therefore cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair, replacement, or other costs as part of a product recall or otherwise, suffer substantial negative publicity, face challenges in our ability to timely deliver products to our customers, write-off the value of related inventory, and divert the attention of our engineering and management personnel. Additionally, actual or alleged defects in our products could result in damage to our reputation and to our ability to 12 win future business. Consequently, our costs and loss of revenue associated with product liability, warranty, and recall claims could be material to our financial position and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Operations Our results are sensitive to raw material availability, quality, and cost and shortages, deteriorations in quality, or price increases could lead to a materially negative impact on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. We are a large buyer of resins, chemicals, additives, and metals, including copper, gold, silver, palladium, aluminum, brass, steel, and zinc. Many of these raw materials are produced in a limited number of countries around the world or are only available from a limited number of suppliers. The prices of many of these raw materials continue to increase and fluctuations may persist in the future. In addition, feedstock for resins and resins themselves, as well as certain other commodities, are increasingly subject to varied and unrelated force majeure events worldwide further impacting price and availability. In recent years, raw material prices and availability have been affected by worldwide economic conditions, including supply chain disruptions, inflationary cost pressures, and the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. If we have difficulty obtaining raw materials, the quality of available raw materials deteriorates, or there are significant price increases for these raw materials, it could have a substantial impact on the price we pay for raw materials. To the extent we cannot compensate for cost increases through productivity improvements or price increases to our customers, our margins may decline, materially affecting our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. In addition, we use financial instruments to hedge the volatility of certain commodities prices. The success of our hedging program depends on accurate forecasts of planned consumption of the hedged commodity materials. We could experience unanticipated hedge gains or losses if these forecasts are inaccurate. The SEC requires annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies which use tin, tantalum, tungsten, or gold (“conflict minerals” or “3TG”) mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (“DRC”) and adjoining countries (together with the DRC, the “Covered Countries”) in their products. These requirements, as well as new and additional regulations like the EU’s Conflict Minerals Regulation, could affect the sourcing, pricing, and availability of 3TG used in the manufacture of certain of our products, and may result in only a limited pool of suppliers which can demonstrate that they do not source any 3TG from the Covered Countries. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain non-conflict 3TG in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Further, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to meet customer non-conflict 3TG standards or sufficiently verify the origins and chain of custody for all conflict minerals used in our products through our due diligence procedures. Poor quality of components and products manufactured by third parties could harm our business. We may rely on third-party suppliers for the components used in our products, and we may rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture certain of our assemblies and finished products. Our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be adversely affected if such third parties lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant changes in their financial or business condition. If these third parties fail to deliver quality products, parts, and components on time and at reasonable prices, we could have difficulties fulfilling our orders, sales and profits could decline, and our commercial reputation could be damaged. Our future success is significantly dependent on our ability to attract and retain management and executive management employees. Our success depends to a significant extent upon our continued ability to retain our management and executive management employees and hire new management and executive management employees to replace, succeed, or add to members of our management team. Our management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. Competition for management talent is intense, and any difficulties we may have to retain or hire members of management to achieve our objectives may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. 13 Cybersecurity incidents and other disruptions affecting our information technology infrastructure or violations of data privacy laws have and could interfere with our operations, compromise confidential information, and expose us to liability which could materially adversely impact our business and reputation. Cybersecurity attacks, threats, and breaches and other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure and/or the information technology infrastructure of our third-party suppliers or business partners could interfere with our operations; compromise information belonging to us, our employees, customers, and suppliers; and expose us to liabilities or penalties which could adversely impact our business and reputation. In the normal course of business, we rely on information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit, and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities. Additionally, we collect and store certain data, including proprietary business information and customer and employee data, and may have access to confidential or personal information in certain of our businesses that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations, and customer-imposed controls. Specifically, we are subject to the laws of various states and countries where we operate or do business related to solicitation, collection, processing, transferring, storing, or use of consumer, customer, supplier, or employee information or related data, including the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation, the California Consumer Privacy Act, and China’s Personal Information Protection Law. In addition, certain countries in which we operate or do business have enacted or are considering enacting laws that impose additional data transfer restrictions. If countries in which we operate or do business were to adopt data localization or data residency laws, we could be required to implement new or expand existing data storage protocols, build new storage facilities, and/or devote additional resources to comply with the requirements of such laws, any of which could have significant implications to business operations and costs. In addition to our own systems, we have outsourced, and expect to continue to outsource, certain information technology services—including cloud computing services and storage systems, system development, and information technology support services—which have in the past, and in the future may, subject our information technology and other sensitive information to additional risk. Our information technology networks and infrastructure, and the technology networks and infrastructure of our third-party suppliers and business partners, are vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attack by malicious actors with significant financial and technological resources, breaches, employee error or malfeasance, power outages, malware (such as computer viruses and ransomware), social engineering (i.e., phishing attacks), theft of system credentials, other increasingly sophisticated attacks, telecommunication or utility failures, systems failures, natural disasters, or other catastrophic events, which may require us to notify regulators, customers, or employees, and enlist identity theft protection in the event of a privacy breach. We continue to monitor and develop our systems to protect the integrity and functionality of our information technology infrastructure and access to and the security of our intellectual property and our employees’, customers’, and suppliers’ data. Cybersecurity breaches and other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure or the information technology infrastructure of our third-party suppliers and business partners, or violations of applicable laws, could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or penalties, disruption in operations, and damage to our reputation, which could materially adversely affect our business. While we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, attacks and threats to our information technology networks and infrastructure, including attempted cyber intrusions, to date none of these attacks and threats have had a material impact on our business or operations. Further, some of our employees have fully-remote or hybrid work arrangements, which may increase our vulnerability to cyber and other information technology risks. Covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. Our five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility (“Credit Facility”) contains financial and other covenants, such as a limit on the ratio of Consolidated Total Debt to Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the Credit Facility) and limits on the amount of subsidiary debt and incurrence of liens. Our outstanding notes’ indentures contain customary covenants including limits on incurrence of liens, sale and lease-back transactions, and our ability to consolidate, merge, and sell assets. Although none of these covenants are presently restrictive to our operations, our continued ability to meet the Credit Facility financial covenant can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to comply with the covenant. A breach of any of our covenants could result in a default under our Credit Facility or indentures. Upon the occurrence of certain defaults under our Credit Facility and indentures, the lenders or trustee could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable, and our lenders could terminate commitments to extend further credit under our Credit Facility. If the lenders or trustee accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets or access to lenders or capital markets to repay or fund the repayment of any amounts outstanding under our Credit Facility and our other affected indebtedness. Acceleration 14 of any debt obligation under any of our material debt instruments may permit the holders or trustee of our other material debt to accelerate payment of debt obligations to the creditors thereunder. The indentures governing our outstanding senior notes contain covenants that may require us to offer to buy back the notes for a price equal to 101% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the repurchase date, upon a change of control triggering event (as defined in the indentures). We cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient funds available or access to funding to repurchase tendered notes in that event, which could result in a default under the notes. Any future debt that we incur may contain covenants regarding repurchases in the event of a change of control triggering event. The market price of our shares may fluctuate widely. The market price of our shares may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, including: Risks Relating to Strategic Transactions Future acquisitions may not be successful. We regularly evaluate the possible acquisition of strategic businesses, product lines, or technologies which have the potential to strengthen our market position or enhance our existing product offerings, and we have completed a number of acquisitions in recent years. We anticipate that we will continue to pursue acquisition opportunities as part of our growth strategy. We cannot provide assurance that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with acquisition candidates in the future. We also cannot provide assurance that completed acquisitions will be successful. Likewise, from time to time, we experience difficulty and unanticipated expenses associated with purchasing and integrating acquisitions, and acquisitions do not always perform and deliver the financial benefits expected. We have also experienced challenges at times following the acquisition of a new company or business, including, but not limited to, managing the operations, manufacturing facilities, and technology; maintaining and increasing the customer base; or retaining key employees, suppliers, or distributors. If an acquired business fails to operate as anticipated or cannot be successfully integrated with our existing business, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Future acquisitions could require us to issue additional debt or equity that may not be available on acceptable terms and could be dilutive. If we were to make a substantial acquisition with cash, the acquisition may need to be financed in part through funding from banks, public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, or other arrangements. This acquisition financing might decrease our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely affect other leverage measures. We cannot provide assurance that sufficient acquisition financing would be available to us on acceptable terms if and when 15 required. If we were to complete an acquisition partially or wholly funded by issuing equity securities or equity-linked securities, the issued securities may have a dilutive effect on the interests of the holders of our shares. Divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. We continue to evaluate the strategic fit of specific businesses and products which may result in additional divestitures. Divestitures may result in significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Divestitures could involve additional risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products, and personnel; the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; the disruption of our business; and the potential loss of key employees. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in addressing these or any other significant risks encountered. Risks Relating to Intellectual Property, Litigation, and Regulations Our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our products and technology. The electronics industry is characterized by litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Within this industry, companies have become more aggressive in asserting and defending patent claims against competitors. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to future litigation alleging infringement or invalidity of certain of our intellectual property rights or that we will not have to pursue litigation to protect our property rights. Depending on the importance of the technology, product, patent, trademark, or trade secret in question, an unfavorable outcome regarding one of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. Litigation, regulatory actions, and compliance issues have and could subject us to fines, penalties, judgments, remediation costs, and/or other requirements that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. In the normal course of business, we are or may be, from time to time, the subject of government or private litigation as a result of a number of factors and from various sources, including (i) reviews, requests for information, investigations, and proceedings (both formal and informal) by state and federal governmental agencies and (ii) litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, anti-competitive behavior, securities law violations, product liability, breach of contract, and employment-related claims. In certain circumstances, patent infringement and antitrust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our management’s attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. In addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. If any of our operations are found not to comply with applicable antitrust or competition laws or applicable trade regulations, our business may suffer. Our operations are subject to applicable antitrust and competition laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, in particular the U.S. and the EU. These laws prohibit, among other things, anticompetitive agreements and practices. If any of our commercial agreements and practices with respect to the electronic components or other markets are found to violate or infringe such laws, we may be subject to civil and other penalties. We may also be subject to third-party claims for damages. Further, agreements that infringe these antitrust and competition laws may be void and unenforceable, in whole or in part, or require modification to be lawful and enforceable. If we are unable to enforce our commercial agreements, whether at all or in material part, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be adversely affected. We also must comply with applicable trade regulations in the jurisdictions where we operate. A small portion of our products, including defense-related products, may require governmental import and export licenses, the issuance of which may be influenced by geopolitical and other events. Any failure to maintain compliance with trade regulations could limit our ability to import and export raw materials and finished goods into or from the relevant jurisdiction, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. In this regard, we have been investigating our past compliance with relevant U.S. trade controls and have made voluntary disclosures of apparent trade controls violations to the 16 U.S. Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security (“BIS”) and the U.S. State Department’s Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (“DDTC”). We are cooperating with the BIS and DDTC on these matters, and the resulting investigations are ongoing. We have also been contacted by the U.S. Department of Justice concerning aspects of these matters. We are unable to predict the timing and final outcome of the agencies’ investigations. An unfavorable outcome may include fines or penalties imposed in response to our disclosures, but we are not yet able to reasonably estimate the extent of any such fines or penalties. Although we have reserved for potential fines and penalties relating to these matters based on our current understanding of the facts, the investigations into these matters have yet to be completed and the final outcome of such investigations and related fines and penalties may differ from amounts currently reserved. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the United Kingdom’s Bribery Act, and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the United Kingdom’s Bribery Act, and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance program, we cannot provide assurance that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation, government enforcement actions, and reputational risk. We are subject to numerous federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations in the various countries where we operate and where our products are sold. These laws and regulations govern, among other things: We may not have been, or we may not always be, in compliance with all environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. If we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged, or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. In addition, environmental and health and safety laws are becoming more stringent, resulting in increased costs and compliance requirements. Certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the costs of investigation, reporting, removal, and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. Liability for investigation, reporting, removal, and remediation costs under certain regulatory regimes, such as U.S. federal and state laws, is retroactive, strict, and joint and several. In addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. We have received notifications from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, other environmental agencies, and third parties that conditions at a number of currently and formerly-owned or operated sites where we and others have disposed of hazardous substances require investigation, cleanup, and other possible remedial action and require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the costs of investigation and remediation and for natural resource damage claims from such sites. We also have independently investigated various sites and determined that further investigation and/or remediation is necessary. 17 While we plan for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with environmental laws, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows or that we will not be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury, property damage, and/or cleanup in the future based on our past, present, or future business activities. Our products are subject to various requirements related to chemical usage, hazardous material content, recycling, and other circular economy initiatives. The EU, China, U.S., and other jurisdictions in which our products are sold have enacted or are proposing to enact laws addressing environmental and other impacts from product disposal, use of hazardous materials in products, use of chemicals in manufacturing, recycling of products at the end of their useful life, circular economy initiatives, and other related matters. These laws include but are not limited to the EU RoHS, End-of-Life Vehicle, and WEEE Directives; the EU REACH regulation; and the China RoHS regulation. These laws prohibit the use of certain substances in the manufacture of our products and directly and indirectly impose a variety of requirements for modification of manufacturing processes, registration, chemical testing, labeling, and other matters. These laws continue to proliferate and expand in these and other jurisdictions to address other materials and other aspects of our product manufacturing and sale. These laws could make the manufacture or sale of our products more expensive or impossible, could limit our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions, and could result in liability for product recalls, penalties, or other claims. Risks Relating to Our Swiss Jurisdiction of Incorporation As a Swiss corporation, we have less flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management involving the issuance of shares . As a Swiss corporation, our board of directors may not declare and pay dividends or distributions on our shares or reclassify reserves on our standalone unconsolidated Swiss balance sheet without shareholder approval and without satisfying certain other requirements. In addition, our articles of association allow us to create conditional share capital of up to 50% of the existing registered shares that may be issued only for specific purposes. As part of the Swiss corporate law reform, effective as of January 1, 2023, the concept of authorized share capital was replaced by a capital band. Under a capital band, the articles of association may authorize the board of directors for a maximum period of five years to increase the ordinary share capital registered in the commercial register to a maximum of 150% and/or reduce it to a minimum of 50% of the share capital existing at the time of the introduction of the capital band. In March 2023, our shareholders approved, for a period of one year ending March 15, 2024, our board of directors’ authorization to issue additional new shares to a maximum of 120% and/or reduce shares to a minimum of 80% of the existing share capital, subject to certain conditions specified in our articles of association. Additionally, subject to specified exceptions, Swiss law grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares and advance subscription rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of certain rights-bearing obligations from conditional share capital. Swiss law also does not provide much flexibility in the various terms that can attach to different classes of shares, and reserves for approval by shareholders many types of corporate actions, including the creation of shares with preferential rights with respect to liquidation, dividends, and/or voting. Moreover, under Swiss law, we generally may not issue registered shares for an amount below par value without prior shareholder approval to decrease the par value of our registered shares. Any such actions for which our shareholders must vote will require that we file a proxy statement with the SEC and convene a meeting of shareholders, which would delay the timing to execute such actions. Such limitations provide the board of directors less flexibility with respect to our capital management. While we do not believe that Swiss law requirements relating to the issuance of shares will have a material adverse effect on us, we cannot provide assurance that situations will not arise where such flexibility would have provided substantial benefits to our shareholders and such limitations on our capital management flexibility would make our stock less attractive to investors. We might not be able to make distributions on our shares without subjecting shareholders to Swiss withholding tax. We anticipate making distributions to shareholders through a reduction of contributed surplus (as determined for Swiss tax and statutory purposes) in order to make the distributions on our shares to shareholders free of Swiss withholding 18 tax. Various tax law proposals in Switzerland, if passed in the future, may affect our ability to pay dividends or distributions to our shareholders free from Swiss withholding tax. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet the legal requirements for future distributions to shareholders through dividends from contributed surplus or through a reduction of registered share capital, or that Swiss withholding rules would not be changed in the future. In addition, over the long term, the amount of registered share capital available for reductions will be limited. Our ability to pay dividends or distributions to our shareholders free from Swiss withholding tax is a significant component of our capital management and shareholder return practices. Currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the Swiss franc may limit the amount available for any future distributions on our shares without subjecting shareholders to Swiss withholding tax. The registered share capital in our unconsolidated Swiss statutory financial statements is denominated in Swiss francs. Although distributions that are effected through a return of contributed surplus or registered share capital are expected to be paid in U.S. dollars, shareholder resolutions with respect to such distributions must take into account the Swiss francs denomination of the registered share capital. If the U.S. dollar were to increase in value relative to the Swiss franc, the U.S. dollar amount of registered share capital available for future distributions without Swiss withholding tax will decrease. We have certain limitations on our ability to repurchase our shares. The Swiss Code of Obligations regulates a corporation’s ability to hold or repurchase its own shares. We and our subsidiaries may only repurchase shares to the extent that sufficient freely distributable reserves (including contributed surplus as determined for Swiss tax and statutory purposes) are available. The aggregate par value of our registered shares held by us and our subsidiaries may not exceed 10% of our registered share capital. We may repurchase our registered shares beyond the statutory limit of 10%, however, only if our shareholders have adopted a resolution at a general meeting of shareholders authorizing the board of directors to repurchase registered shares in an amount in excess of 10% and the repurchased shares are dedicated for cancellation. Our ability to repurchase our shares is a significant component of our capital management and shareholder return practices that we believe is important to our shareholders, and any restriction on our ability to repurchase our shares could make our stock less attractive to investors. Registered holders of our shares must be registered as shareholders with voting rights in order to vote at shareholder meetings. Our articles of association contain a provision regarding voting rights that is required by Swiss law for Swiss companies like us that issue registered shares (as opposed to bearer shares). This provision provides that to be able to exercise voting rights, holders of our shares must be registered in our share register (Aktienbuch) as shareholders with voting rights. Only shareholders whose shares have been registered with voting rights on the record date may participate in and vote at our shareholders’ meetings, but all shareholders will be entitled to dividends, distributions, preemptive rights, advance subscription rights, and liquidation proceeds. The board of directors may, in its discretion, refuse to register shares as shares with voting rights if a shareholder does not fulfill certain disclosure requirements in our articles of association. Certain provisions of our articles of association may reduce the likelihood of any unsolicited acquisition proposal or potential change of control that our shareholders might consider favorable. Our articles of association contain provisions that could be considered “anti-takeover” provisions because they would make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our incumbent board of directors. Under these provisions, among others: These provisions may only be amended by the affirmative vote of the holders of 80% of our issued voting shares, which could have the effect of discouraging an unsolicited acquisition proposal or delaying, deferring, or preventing a change of control transaction that might involve a premium price, or otherwise be considered favorable by our shareholders. Our articles of association also contain provisions permitting our board of directors to issue new shares from authorized or conditional capital  without shareholder approval and without regard for shareholders’ preemptive rights or advance subscription rights, for the purpose of the defense of an actual, threatened, or potential unsolicited takeover bid, in relation to 19 which the board of directors, upon consultation with an independent financial advisor, has not recommended acceptance to the shareholders. We note that Swiss courts have not addressed whether or not a takeover bid of this nature is an acceptable reason under Swiss law for withdrawing or limiting preemptive rights with respect to authorized share capital or advance subscription rights with respect to conditional share capital. In addition, the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), on which our shares are listed, requires shareholder approval for issuances of shares equal to 20% or more of the outstanding shares or voting power, with limited exceptions. Global legislative and regulatory actions and proposals could cause a material change in our worldwide effective corporate tax rate and our global cash taxes. Various legislative and regulatory proposals have been directed at multinational companies with operations in lower-tax jurisdictions. There has been heightened focus on adoption of such legislation and on other initiatives, such as: If these proposals are adopted, they may materially increase cash taxes, increase our worldwide corporate effective tax rate, cause double taxation, and increase audit risk. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals or initiatives, and we cannot provide assurance that any such legislation or initiative will not apply to us. Legislation in the U.S. could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. Various U.S. federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced in recent years that may negatively impact the growth of our business by denying government contracts to U.S. companies that have moved to lower-tax jurisdictions. We expect the U.S. Congress to continue to consider implementation and/or expansion of policies that would restrict the federal and state governments from contracting with entities that have corporate locations abroad. We cannot predict the likelihood that, or final form in which, any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business, or the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. Therefore, we cannot provide assurance that any such legislative action will not apply to us. In addition, we are unable to predict whether the final form of any potential legislation discussed above also would affect our indirect sales to U.S. federal or state governments or the willingness of our non-governmental customers to do business with us. As a result of these uncertainties, we are unable to assess the potential impact of any proposed legislation in this area and cannot provide assurance that the impact will not be materially adverse to us. Swiss law differs from the laws in effect in the U.S. and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. As we are organized under the laws of Switzerland, it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the U.S. against us in Switzerland based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Switzerland would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us, or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the U.S. and Switzerland currently do not have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Some remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including some remedies available under the U.S. federal securities laws, would not be allowed in Swiss courts as they are contrary to Switzerland’s public policy. 20 Swiss law differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. These differences include the manner in which directors must disclose transactions in which they have an interest, the rights of shareholders to bring class action and derivative lawsuits, and the scope of indemnification available to directors and officers. Thus, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the U.S.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report. The following discussion may contain forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those factors discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report, particularly in “Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Information.” Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in U.S. dollars, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“GAAP”). Discussion of our financial condition and results of operations for fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 is presented below. Discussion of our financial condition and results of operations for fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 can be found in “Part II. Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022. The following discussion includes organic net sales growth which is a non-GAAP financial measure. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measure” for additional information regarding this measure. 24 Overview We are a global industrial technology leader creating a safer, sustainable, productive, and connected future. Our broad range of connectivity and sensor solutions, proven in the harshest environments, enable advancements in transportation, industrial applications, medical technology, energy, data communications, and the home. Summary of Fiscal 2023 Performance Economic Conditions Our business and operating results have been and will continue to be affected by worldwide economic conditions. The global economy has been impacted in recent years by supply chain disruptions and inflationary cost pressures as well as the military conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the COVID-19 pandemic. We are monitoring the current environment and its potential effects on our customers and the end markets we serve. We have experienced inflationary cost pressures including increased costs for transportation, energy, and raw materials. However, we have been able to mitigate increased costs and supply chain disruptions through price increases or productivity. We have implemented select price increases for certain products. Also, we have taken and continue to focus on actions to manage costs, including restructuring and other cost reduction initiatives such as reducing discretionary spending and travel. Additionally, we are managing our capital resources and monitoring capital availability to ensure that we have sufficient resources to fund our future capital needs. See further discussion in “Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We continue to monitor the military conflict between Russia and Ukraine, escalating tensions in surrounding countries, and associated sanctions. We sold our business operations in Russia, and our operations in Ukraine have been reduced. Neither Russia nor Ukraine represents a material portion of our business, and the military conflict did not have a significant impact on our business, financial condition, or results of operations during fiscal 2023 and 2022. The COVID-19 pandemic had a global impact and resulted in business slowdowns or shutdowns, including systemic disruptions of global supply chains. While the pandemic impacted certain aspects of our business, the extent to which the pandemic will continue to impact our business and the markets we serve will depend on future developments which may include the resurgence of the spread of the virus and variant strains of the virus as well as the success of public health advancements. Certain of our operations in China were impacted in early fiscal 2023 and were shut down for a period of time in fiscal 2022; however, we do not expect the pandemic to have a significant impact on our businesses globally in the near term. 25 Outlook In the first quarter of fiscal 2024, we expect our net sales to be approximately $3.85 billion as compared to $3.84 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2023. Net sales increases in the Transportation Solutions and Industrial Solutions segments are expected to be largely offset by sales declines in the Communications Solutions segment. We expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be approximately $1.59 per share in the first quarter of fiscal 2024. This outlook reflects the impact of foreign currency exchange rates which is a positive impact of approximately $17 million on net sales and a negative impact of approximately $0.02 per share on earnings per share in the first quarter of fiscal 2024 as compared to the same period of fiscal 2023. Also, this outlook is based on foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices that are consistent with current levels. Acquisitions During fiscal 2023, we acquired one business for a cash purchase price of $110 million, net of cash acquired. The acquisition was reported as part of our Industrial Solutions segment from the date of acquisition. We acquired three businesses for a combined cash purchase price of $245 million, net of cash acquired, during fiscal 2022. The acquisitions were reported as part of our Communications Solutions segment from the date of acquisition. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding acquisitions. Pending Acquisition In August 2023, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we agreed to launch a public tender offer to acquire all outstanding shares of Schaffner Holding AG (“Schaffner”), a leader in electromagnetic solutions based in Switzerland, for CHF 505.00 per share in cash for a fair value of approximately CHF 320 million (equivalent to approximately $350 million). The tender offer commenced in September 2023. As of November 10, 2023, the completion of the initial offer period, the offer has been accepted for approximately 89% of Schaffner’s outstanding shares. The offer is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals, and is expected to be settled in the first quarter of fiscal 2024. Divestitures During fiscal 2023, we sold three businesses for net cash proceeds of $48 million. In connection with the divestitures, we recorded pre-tax impairment charges and a net pre-tax loss on sales, which totaled to a net charge of $9 million. The businesses sold were reported in our Industrial Solutions segment. Additionally, during fiscal 2023, we recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $68 million in connection with a held for sale business in our Transportation Solutions segment. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding divestitures. Results of Operations Net Sales The following table presents our net sales and the percentage of total net sales by segment: 26 The following table provides an analysis of the change in our net sales by segment: Net sales decreased $247 million, or 1.5%, in fiscal 2023 as compared to fiscal 2022. The decrease in net sales resulted primarily from the negative impact of foreign currency translation of 2.6% due to the weakening of certain foreign currencies, partially offset by organic net sales growth of 1.0%. In fiscal 2023, pricing actions positively affected organic net sales by $607 million. Fiscal 2022 included an additional week which contributed $306 million in net sales. The impact of the additional week was estimated using an average sales figure for the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. See further discussion of net sales below under “Segment Results.” Net Sales by Geographic Region. Our business operates in three geographic regions—EMEA, Asia–Pacific, and the Americas—and our results of operations are influenced by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar, compared to other currencies, will directly affect our reported results as we translate those currencies into U.S. dollars at the end of each fiscal period. We sell our products into approximately 140 countries, and approximately 60% of our net sales were invoiced in currencies other than the U.S. dollar in fiscal 2023. The percentage of net sales in fiscal 2023 by major currencies invoiced was as follows: The following table presents our net sales and the percentage of total net sales by geographic region: The following table provides an analysis of the change in our net sales by geographic region: 27 Cost of Sales and Gross Margin The following table presents cost of sales and gross margin information: In fiscal 2023, gross margin decreased $189 million as compared to fiscal 2022 due primarily to higher material and operating costs, lower volume, and the negative impact of foreign currency translation, partially offset by the positive impact of pricing actions. We use a wide variety of raw materials in the manufacture of our products, and cost of sales and gross margin are subject to variability in raw material prices. In recent years, raw material prices and availability have been affected by worldwide economic conditions, including supply chain disruptions and inflationary cost pressures. As a result, we have experienced shortages and price increases in some of our input materials—including certain metals—however, we have been able to initiate pricing actions to offset these impacts. The following table presents the average prices incurred related to copper, gold, silver, and palladium: ​ In fiscal 2023, we purchased approximately 181 million pounds of copper, 112,000 troy ounces of gold, 2.4 million troy ounces of silver, and 7,000 troy ounces of palladium. We expect to purchase approximately 180 million pounds of copper, 110,000 troy ounces of gold, 2.0 million troy ounces of silver, and 12,000 troy ounces of palladium in fiscal 2024. Operating Expenses The following table presents operating expense information: Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses. In fiscal 2023, selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $86 million as compared to fiscal 2022 due primarily to gains on the sale of real estate in fiscal 2022 and the impact of cost inflation, partially offset by savings attributable to restructuring actions and the positive impact of foreign currency translation. ​ 28 Restructuring and Other Charges, Net. We are committed to continuous productivity improvements, and we evaluate opportunities to simplify our global manufacturing footprint, migrate facilities to lower-cost regions, reduce fixed costs, and eliminate excess capacity. These initiatives are designed to help us maintain our competitiveness in the industry, improve our operating leverage, and position us for future growth. During fiscal 2023 and 2022, we initiated restructuring programs associated with cost structure improvements across all segments. We incurred net restructuring charges of $260 million in fiscal 2023 and net restructuring and related charges of $153 million, of which $16 million was recorded in cost of sales, in fiscal 2022. Annualized cost savings related to actions initiated in fiscal 2023 are expected to be approximately $200 million and are expected to be fully realized by the end of fiscal 2026. Cost savings will be reflected primarily in cost of sales and selling, general, and administrative expenses. For fiscal 2024, we expect total restructuring charges to be approximately $100 million and total spending, which will be funded with cash from operations, to be approximately $175 million. During fiscal 2023 and 2022, we recorded net charges of $77 million and $4 million, respectively, related to pre-tax impairment of held for sale businesses and loss (gain) on divestitures. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding net restructuring and other charges. Operating Income The following table presents operating income and operating margin information: Operating income included the following: See discussion of operating income below under “Segment Results.” 29 Non-Operating Items The following table presents select non-operating information: Interest Income and Expense. Interest income increased $45 million in fiscal 2023 from fiscal 2022 due to higher interest rates as well as an increase in our cash balances held and invested. In fiscal 2023, interest expense increased $14 million as compared to fiscal 2022 primarily as a result of a higher average cost of debt due to rising interest rates, partially offset by the expansion of our cross-currency swap program that hedges our net investment in certain foreign operations. The aggregate notional value of the contracts under this program was $3,806 million at fiscal year end 2023. Under the terms of these contracts, we receive interest in U.S. dollars at a weighted-average rate of 1.6% per annum and pay no interest. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our cross-currency swap program. Other Income (Expense). We recorded net periodic pension benefit cost of $16 million and credit of $25 million in net other income (expense) in fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our retirement plans. Also, in fiscal 2022, we recorded other income of $11 million related to an indemnification receivable associated with an income tax audit. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding income taxes. Income Taxes. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of items impacting income tax expense and the effective tax rate. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”) and participating countries continue to work toward the enactment of a 15% global minimum corporate tax. Member states have begun to enact the rules. Swiss Parliament recently approved a constitutional amendment to implement the rules, and the amendment was approved by public vote in June 2023. We anticipate that the Swiss global minimum tax will be effective as of January 1, 2024. The global minimum tax is a significant structural change to the international taxation framework, which is expected to affect us beginning in fiscal 2025. Although global enactment has begun, the OECD and participating countries continue to work on defining the underlying rules and administrative procedures. We are currently monitoring these developments and evaluating the impact, which could be material to our results of operations, cash taxes, and worldwide corporate effective tax rate. The valuation allowance for deferred tax assets was $7,416 million and $7,112 million at fiscal year end 2023 and 2022, respectively. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets. As of fiscal year end 2023, certain subsidiaries had approximately $38.0 billion of cumulative undistributed earnings that have been retained indefinitely and reinvested in our global manufacturing operations, including working capital; property, plant, and equipment; intangible assets; and research and development activities. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding undistributed earnings. 30 Segment Results Effective for fiscal 2023, we realigned certain product lines from the Industrial Solutions segment to the Communications Solutions segment. Prior period segment results have been restated to conform to the current segment reporting structure. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our segments. Transportation Solutions Net Sales. The following table presents the Transportation Solutions segment’s net sales and the percentage of total net sales by industry end market (1) : The following table provides an analysis of the change in the Transportation Solutions segment’s net sales by industry end market: Net sales in the Transportation Solutions segment increased $369 million, or 4.0%, in fiscal 2023 from fiscal 2022 as a result of organic net sales growth of 7.2%, partially offset by the negative impact of foreign currency translation of 3.2%. In fiscal 2023, pricing actions positively affected organic net sales by $375 million. Fiscal 2022 included an additional week which contributed $180 million in net sales. Our organic net sales by industry end market were as follows: Operating Income. The following table presents the Transportation Solutions segment’s operating income and operating margin information: 31 Operating income in the Transportation Solutions segment decreased $83 million in fiscal 2023 as compared to fiscal 2022. Excluding the items below, operating income increased in fiscal 2023 primarily as a result of the positive impact of pricing actions, partially offset by higher material and operating costs and the negative impact of foreign currency translation. Industrial Solutions Net Sales. The following table presents the Industrial Solutions segment’s net sales and the percentage of total net sales by industry end market (1) : The following table provides an analysis of the change in the Industrial Solutions segment’s net sales by industry end market: In the Industrial Solutions segment, net sales increased $61 million, or 1.4%, in fiscal 2023 from fiscal 2022 due primarily to organic net sales growth of 3.4%, partially offset by the negative impact of foreign currency translation of 1.7%. In fiscal 2023, pricing actions positively affected organic net sales by $242 million. Fiscal 2022 included an additional week which contributed $84 million in net sales. Our organic net sales by industry end market were as follows: 32 Operating Income. The following table presents the Industrial Solutions segment’s operating income and operating margin information: Operating income in the Industrial Solutions segment decreased $5 million in fiscal 2023 from fiscal 2022. Excluding the items below, operating income increased slightly in fiscal 2023 primarily as a result of the positive impact of pricing actions, partially offset by lower volume, the negative impact of foreign currency translation, and higher material and operating costs. Communications Solutions Net Sales. The following table presents the Communications Solutions segment’s net sales and the percentage of total net sales by industry end market (1) : The following table provides an analysis of the change in the Communications Solutions segment’s net sales by industry end market: Net sales in the Communications Solutions segment decreased $677 million, or 26.3%, in fiscal 2023 as compared to fiscal 2022 due primarily to organic net sales declines of 25.2%. Fiscal 2022 included an additional week which contributed $42 million in net sales. Our organic net sales by industry end market were as follows: 33 Operating Income. The following table presents the Communications Solutions segment’s operating income and operating margin information: In the Communications Solutions segment, operating income decreased $364 million in fiscal 2023 as compared to fiscal 2022. Excluding the items below, operating income decreased in fiscal 2023 due primarily to lower volume. ​ ​ Liquidity and Capital Resources Our ability to fund our future capital needs will be affected by our ongoing ability to generate cash from operations and may be affected by our access to capital markets, money markets, or other sources of funding, as well as the capacity and terms of our financing arrangements. We believe that cash generated from operations and, to the extent necessary, these other sources of potential funding will be sufficient to meet our anticipated capital needs for the foreseeable future, including the pending acquisition of Schaffner and payment of $350 million of 3.45% senior notes due in August 2024. We may use excess cash to purchase a portion of our common shares pursuant to our authorized share repurchase program, to acquire strategic businesses or product lines, to pay dividends on our common shares, or to reduce our outstanding debt. The cost or availability of future funding may be impacted by financial market conditions. We will continue to monitor financial markets and respond as necessary to changing conditions. We believe that we have sufficient financial resources and liquidity which will enable us to meet our ongoing working capital and other cash flow needs. As of fiscal year end 2023, our cash and cash equivalents were held in subsidiaries which are located in various countries throughout the world. Under current applicable laws, substantially all of these amounts can be repatriated to Tyco Electronics Group S.A. (“TEGSA”), our Luxembourg subsidiary, which is the obligor of substantially all of our debt, and to TE Connectivity Ltd., our Swiss parent company; however, the repatriation of these amounts could subject us to additional tax expense. We provide for tax liabilities on the Consolidated Financial Statements with respect to amounts that we expect to repatriate; however, no tax liabilities are recorded for amounts that we consider to be retained indefinitely and reinvested in our global manufacturing operations. As of fiscal year end 2023, we had approximately $2.6 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and intercompany deposits, principally in our subsidiaries, that we have the ability to distribute to TEGSA and TE Connectivity Ltd. but we consider to be permanently reinvested. We estimate that an immaterial amount of tax expense would be recognized on the Consolidated Financial Statements if our intention to permanently reinvest these amounts were to change. Our current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate cash, cash equivalents, and intercompany deposits that are designated as permanently reinvested in order to fund our operations, including investing and financing activities. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities increased $664 million to $3,132 million in fiscal 2023 as compared to $2,468 million in fiscal 2022. The increase resulted primarily from the impact of changes in working capital levels, partially offset by lower pre-tax income. The amount of income taxes paid, net of refunds, during fiscal 2023 and 2022 was $425 million and $421 million, respectively. 34 Pension contributions were $71 million and $42 million in fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively. We expect pension contributions to be $70 million in fiscal 2024, before consideration of any voluntary contributions. For additional information regarding pensions, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Capital expenditures were $732 million and $768 million in fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively. We expect fiscal 2024 capital spending levels to be approximately 5% of net sales. We believe our capital funding levels are adequate to support new programs, and we continue to invest in our manufacturing infrastructure to further enhance productivity and manufacturing capabilities. During fiscal 2023, we acquired one business for a cash purchase price of $110 million, net of cash acquired. We acquired three businesses for a combined cash purchase price of $245 million, net of cash acquired, during fiscal 2022. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding acquisitions. During fiscal 2023, we received net cash proceeds of $48 million related to the sale of three businesses. We received net cash proceeds of $16 million related to the sale of two businesses during fiscal 2022. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding divestitures. Cash Flows from Financing Activities and Capitalization Total debt at fiscal year end 2023 and 2022 was $4,211 million and $4,206 million, respectively. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding debt. During fiscal 2023, TEGSA, our wholly-owned subsidiary, issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 4.50% senior notes due in February 2026. The notes are TEGSA’s unsecured senior obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all existing and any future senior indebtedness of TEGSA and senior to any subordinated indebtedness that TEGSA may incur. TEGSA has a five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility (“Credit Facility”) with a maturity date of June 2026 and total commitments of $1.5 billion. The Credit Facility contains provisions that allow for incremental commitments of up to $500 million, an option to temporarily increase the financial ratio covenant following a qualified acquisition, and borrowings in designated currencies. TEGSA had no borrowings under the Credit Facility at fiscal year end 2023 or 2022. Borrowings under the Credit Facility bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at the option of TEGSA, (1) the term secured overnight financing rate (“Term SOFR”) (as defined in the Credit Facility), (2) an alternate base rate equal to the highest of (i) Bank of America, N.A.’s base rate, (ii) the federal funds effective rate plus 1 / 2 of 1%, and (iii) the Term SOFR for a one-month interest period plus 1%, (3) an alternative currency daily rate, or (4) an alternative currency term rate, plus, in each case, an applicable margin based upon the senior, unsecured, long-term debt rating of TEGSA. TEGSA is required to pay an annual facility fee. Based on the applicable credit ratings of TEGSA, this fee ranges from 5.0 to 12.5 basis points of the lenders’ commitments under the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility contains a financial ratio covenant providing that if, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, our ratio of Consolidated Total Debt to Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the Credit Facility) for the then most recently concluded period of four consecutive fiscal quarters exceeds 3.75 to 1.0, an Event of Default (as defined in the Credit Facility) is triggered. The Credit Facility and our other debt agreements contain other customary covenants. None of our covenants are presently considered restrictive to our operations. As of fiscal year end 2023, we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants and believe that we will continue to be in compliance with our existing covenants for the foreseeable future. Periodically, TEGSA issues commercial paper to U.S. institutional accredited investors and qualified institutional buyers in accordance with available exemptions from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 as part of our ongoing effort to maintain financial flexibility and to potentially decrease the cost of borrowings. Borrowings under the commercial paper program are backed by the Credit Facility. At fiscal year end 2023, TEGSA had $330 million of commercial paper outstanding at a weighted-average interest rate of 5.50%. TEGSA had $370 million of commercial paper outstanding at a weighted-average interest rate of 3.45% at fiscal year end 2022. 35 TEGSA’s payment obligations under its senior notes, commercial paper, and Credit Facility are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on an unsecured basis by its parent, TE Connectivity Ltd. Payments of common share dividends to shareholders were $725 million and $685 million in fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding dividends on our common shares. In March 2023, our shareholders approved a dividend payment to shareholders of $2.36 per share, payable in four equal quarterly installments of $0.59 per share beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2023 and ending in the second quarter of fiscal 2024. Future dividends on our common shares, if any, must be approved by our shareholders. In exercising their discretion to recommend to the shareholders that such dividends be approved, our board of directors will consider our results of operations, cash requirements and surplus, financial condition, statutory requirements of applicable law, contractual restrictions, and other factors that they may deem relevant. We repurchased approximately 8 million of our common shares for $946 million and approximately 10 million of our common shares for $1,409 million under the share repurchase program during fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively. At fiscal year end 2023, we had $735 million of availability remaining under our share repurchase authorization. Summarized Guarantor Financial Information As discussed above, our senior notes, commercial paper, and Credit Facility are issued by TEGSA and are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on an unsecured basis by TEGSA’s parent, TE Connectivity Ltd. In addition to being the issuer of our debt securities, TEGSA owns, directly or indirectly, all of our operating subsidiaries. The following tables present summarized financial information, excluding investments in and equity in earnings of our non-guarantor subsidiaries, for TE Connectivity Ltd. and TEGSA on a combined basis. ​ ​ Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements In certain instances, we have guaranteed the performance of third parties and provided financial guarantees for uncompleted work and financial commitments. The terms of these guarantees vary with end dates ranging from fiscal 2024 through the completion of such transactions. The guarantees would be triggered in the event of nonperformance, and the potential exposure for nonperformance under the guarantees would not have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. 36 In disposing of assets or businesses, we often provide representations, warranties, and/or indemnities to cover various risks including unknown damage to assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability for investigation and remediation of environmental contamination at waste disposal sites and manufacturing facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to disposition. We do not expect that these uncertainties will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. At fiscal year end 2023, we had outstanding letters of credit, letters of guarantee, and surety bonds of $198 million, including letters of credit of $29 million associated with our divesture of the Subsea Communications business. In addition, at fiscal year end 2023, we had $27 million of performance guarantees associated with that divestiture. We contractually agreed to continue to honor letters of credit and performance guarantees related to the business’ projects that existed as of the date of sale; however, based on historical experience, we do not anticipate having to perform on these guarantees. ​ ​ Commitments and Contingencies The following table provides a summary of our contractual obligations and commitments for debt, minimum lease payment obligations under non-cancelable leases, and other material obligations at fiscal year end 2023: Legal Proceedings In the normal course of business, we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, including patent infringement claims, product liability matters, employment disputes, disputes on agreements, other commercial disputes, environmental matters, antitrust claims, and tax matters, including non-income tax matters such as value added tax, sales and 37 use tax, real estate tax, and transfer tax. Although it is not feasible to predict the outcome of these proceedings, based upon our experience, current information, and applicable law, we do not expect that the outcome of these proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, will have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. Trade Compliance Matters We have been investigating our past compliance with relevant U.S. trade controls and have made voluntary disclosures of apparent trade controls violations to the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security (“BIS”) and the U.S. State Department’s Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (“DDTC”). We are cooperating with the BIS and DDTC on these matters, and the resulting investigations are ongoing. We have also been contacted by the U.S. Department of Justice concerning aspects of these matters. We are unable to predict the timing and final outcome of the agencies’ investigations. An unfavorable outcome may include fines or penalties imposed in response to our disclosures, but we are not yet able to reasonably estimate the extent of any such fines or penalties. Although we have reserved for potential fines and penalties relating to these matters based on our current understanding of the facts, the investigations into these matters have yet to be completed and the final outcome of such investigations and related fines and penalties may differ from amounts currently reserved. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. Our significant accounting policies are summarized in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe the following accounting policies are the most critical as they require significant judgments and assumptions that involve inherent risks and uncertainties. Management’s estimates are based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. Revenue Recognition We account for revenue in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers . Our revenues are generated principally from the sale of our products. Revenue is recognized as performance obligations under the terms of a contract, such as a purchase order with a customer, are satisfied; generally this occurs with the transfer of control. We transfer control and recognize revenue when we ship product to our customers, the customers accept and have legal title for the product, and we have a right to payment for such product. Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration that we expect to receive in exchange for those products and excludes taxes assessed by governmental authorities and collected from customers concurrent with the sale of products. Shipping and handling costs are treated as fulfillment costs and are included in cost of sales. Since we typically invoice our customers when we satisfy our performance obligations, we do not have material contract assets or contract liabilities. Our credit terms are customary and do not contain significant financing components that extend beyond one year of fulfillment of performance obligations. We apply the practical expedient of ASC 606 with respect to financing components and do not evaluate contracts in which payment is due within one year of satisfaction of the related performance obligation. Since our performance obligations to deliver products are part of contracts that generally have original durations of one year or less, we have elected to use the optional exemption to not disclose the aggregate amount of transaction prices associated with unsatisfied or partially satisfied performance obligations. Our standard terms of sale generally warrant that our products will conform to our, or mutually agreed to, specifications and that our products will be free from material defects in materials and workmanship for a limited time. In certain instances, we may sell products to customers under terms other than our standard terms. We do not account for warranties as separate performance obligations. Although products are generally sold at fixed prices, certain distributors and customers receive incentives or awards, such as sales rebates, return allowances, scrap allowances, and other rights, which are accounted for as variable consideration. We estimate these amounts in the same period revenue is recognized based on the expected value to be provided to customers and reduce revenue accordingly. Our estimates of variable consideration and ultimate determination of the estimated amounts to include in the transaction price are based primarily on our assessment of anticipated performance and historical and forecasted information that is reasonably available to us. 38 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets We account for goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC 350, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other . Intangible assets include both indeterminable-lived residual goodwill and determinable-lived identifiable intangible assets. Intangible assets with determinable lives primarily include intellectual property, consisting of patents, trademarks, and unpatented technology, and customer relationships. Recoverability estimates range from 1 to 50 years and costs are generally amortized on a straight-line basis. Evaluations of the remaining useful lives of determinable-lived intangible assets are performed on a periodic basis and when events and circumstances warrant. We test for goodwill impairment at the reporting unit level. A reporting unit is generally an operating segment or one level below an operating segment (a “component”) if the component constitutes a business for which discrete financial information is available and regularly reviewed by segment management. At fiscal year end 2023, we had five reporting units, all of which contained goodwill. There were two reporting units in both the Transportation Solutions and Industrial Solutions segments and one reporting unit in the Communications Solutions segment. When changes occur in the composition of one or more reporting units, goodwill is reassigned to the reporting units affected based on their relative fair values. We review our reporting unit structure each year as part of our annual goodwill impairment test, or more frequently based on changes in our structure. Goodwill impairment is evaluated by comparing the carrying value of each reporting unit to its fair value on the first day of the fourth fiscal quarter of each year or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. In assessing a potential impairment, management relies on several reporting unit-specific factors including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, transactions, and marketplace data. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management’s judgment in applying these factors to the impairment analysis. When testing for goodwill impairment, we identify potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, a goodwill impairment charge will be recorded for the amount of the excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. Fair value estimates used in the goodwill impairment tests are calculated using an income approach based on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting unit. The income approach is supported by a guideline analysis (a market approach). These approaches incorporate several assumptions including future growth rates, discount rates, income tax rates, and market activity in assessing fair value and are reporting unit specific. Changes in economic and operating conditions impacting these assumptions could result in goodwill impairments in future periods. We completed our annual goodwill impairment test in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023 and determined that no impairment existed. Income Taxes In determining pre-tax income for financial statement purposes, we must make certain estimates and judgments. These estimates and judgments affect the calculation of certain tax liabilities and the determination of the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets, which arise from temporary differences between the income tax return and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets, we consider all available positive and negative evidence including our past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most recent years, and our forecast of taxable income. In estimating future taxable income, we develop assumptions including the amount of pre-tax operating income in various tax jurisdictions, the reversal of temporary differences, and the implementation of feasible and prudent tax planning strategies. These assumptions require significant judgment about the forecasts of taxable income and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses. We currently have recorded significant valuation allowances that we intend to maintain until it is more likely than not the deferred tax assets will be realized. Our income tax expense recorded in the future will be reduced to the extent of decreases in our valuation allowances. The realization of our remaining deferred tax assets is dependent primarily on future taxable income in the appropriate jurisdictions. Any reduction in future taxable income including any future restructuring activities may require that we record an additional valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. An increase in the 39 valuation allowance would result in additional income tax expense in such period and could have a significant impact on our future earnings. Changes in tax laws and rates also could affect recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities in the future. Management is not aware of any enacted changes that would have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. The calculation of our tax liabilities includes estimates for uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations across multiple global jurisdictions where we conduct our operations. Under the uncertain tax position provisions of ASC 740, Income Taxes , we recognize liabilities for tax and related interest for issues in tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and related interest will be due. These tax liabilities and related interest are reflected net of the impact of related tax loss carryforwards, as such tax loss carryforwards will be applied against these tax liabilities and will reduce the amount of cash tax payments due upon the eventual settlement with the tax authorities. These estimates may change due to changing facts and circumstances. Due to the complexity of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a settlement that differs from our current estimate of the tax liabilities and related interest. These tax liabilities and related interest are recorded in income taxes and accrued and other current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Pension Plans Our defined benefit pension plan expense and obligations are developed from actuarial assumptions. The funded status of our plans is recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and is measured as the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the projected benefit obligation at the measurement date. The projected benefit obligation represents the actuarial present value of benefits projected to be paid upon retirement factoring in estimated future compensation levels. The fair value of plan assets represents the current market value of cumulative company and participant contributions made to irrevocable trust funds, held for the sole benefit of participants, which are invested by the trustees of the funds. The benefits under our defined benefit pension plans are based on various factors, such as years of service and compensation. Net periodic pension benefit cost is based on the utilization of the projected unit credit method of calculation and is charged to earnings on a systematic basis over the expected average remaining service lives of current participants, or, for inactive plans, over the remaining life expectancy of participants. Two critical assumptions in determining pension expense and obligations are discount rates and expected long-term returns on plan assets. We evaluate these assumptions at least annually. Other assumptions reflect demographic factors such as retirement, mortality, and employee turnover. These assumptions are evaluated periodically and updated to reflect our actual experience. Actual results may differ from actuarial assumptions. Discount rates represent the market rate for high-quality fixed income investments and are used to calculate the present value of the expected future cash flows for benefit obligations to be paid under our pension plans. A decrease in discount rates increases the present value of pension benefit obligations. At fiscal year end 2023, a 25-basis-point decrease in discount rates would have increased the present value of our pension obligations by $60 million; a 25-basis-point increase would have decreased the present value of our pension obligations by $57 million. We consider the current and expected asset allocations of our pension plans, as well as historical and expected long-term rates of return on those types of plan assets, in determining the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets. A 50-basis-point decrease or increase in the expected long-term returns on plan assets would have increased or decreased, respectively, our fiscal 2023 pension expense by $8 million. At fiscal year end 2023, the long-term target asset allocation in our U.S. plans’ master trust is 25% return-seeking assets and 75% liability-hedging assets. Asset re-allocation to meet that target is occurring over a multi-year period based on the funded status. We expect to reach our target allocation when the funded status of the plans exceeds 110%. Based on the funded status of the plans as of fiscal year end 2023, our target asset allocation is 67% return-seeking and 33% liability-hedging. Accounting Pronouncement See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding a recently issued accounting pronouncement. 40 Non-GAAP Financial Measure Organic Net Sales Growth (Decline) We present organic net sales growth (decline) as we believe it is appropriate for investors to consider this adjusted financial measure in addition to results in accordance with GAAP. Organic net sales growth (decline) represents net sales growth (decline) (the most comparable GAAP financial measure) excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, and acquisitions and divestitures that occurred in the preceding twelve months, if any. Organic net sales growth (decline) is a useful measure of our performance because it excludes items that are not completely under management’s control, such as the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and items that do not reflect the underlying growth of the company, such as acquisition and divestiture activity. Organic net sales growth (decline) provides useful information about our results and the trends of our business. Management uses this measure to monitor and evaluate performance. Also, management uses this measure together with GAAP financial measures in its decision-making processes related to the operations of our reportable segments and our overall company. It is also a significant component in our incentive compensation plans. We believe that investors benefit from having access to the same financial measures that management uses in evaluating operations. The tables presented in “Results of Operations” and “Segment Results” provide reconciliations of organic net sales growth (decline) to net sales growth (decline) calculated in accordance with GAAP. Organic net sales growth (decline) is a non-GAAP financial measure and should not be considered a replacement for results in accordance with GAAP. This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures reported by other companies. The primary limitation of this measure is that it excludes the financial impact of items that would otherwise either increase or decrease our reported results. This limitation is best addressed by using organic net sales growth (decline) in combination with net sales growth (decline) to better understand the amounts, character, and impact of any increase or decrease in reported amounts. Forward-Looking Information Certain statements in this Annual Report are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. These statements are based on our management’s beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. Forward-looking statements include, among others, the information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, potential growth opportunities, potential operating performance improvements, acquisitions, divestitures, the effects of competition, and the effects of future legislation or regulations. Forward-looking statements also include statements addressing our ESG, and sustainability plans and goals. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words “believe,” “expect,” “plan,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “aspire,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” “goal,” “target,” “continue,” “may,” and “should,” or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Investors should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. We do not have any intention or obligation to update forward-looking statements after we file this report except as required by law. The following and other risks, which are described in greater detail in “Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors,” as well as other risks described in this Annual Report, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed in forward- looking statements: 41 There may be other risks and uncertainties that we are unable to predict at this time or that we currently do not expect to have a material adverse effect on our business. 42