********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Our business is subject to many risks. Set forth below are the material risks we face. Risks are listed in the categories where they primarily apply, but other categories may also apply. Competitive and Reputational Risks If we are unable to positively differentiate ourselves from other retailers, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We attempt to differentiate our guest experience through a careful combination of price, merchandise assortment, store environment, convenience, guest service, loyalty programs, and marketing. Our ability to successfully differentiate ourselves depends on many competitive factors, including guest perceptions regarding the safety and cleanliness of our stores, the value and exclusivity of our offerings, our in-stock levels, the effectiveness of our digital channels and fulfillment options, our ability to responsibly source merchandise, and our ability to create a personalized guest experience. If we fail to differentiate our guest experience from our competitors, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The retail industry's continuing migration to digital channels and multiple fulfillment options for consumers has affected the ways we differentiate from other retailers. Since consumers can quickly comparison shop using digital tools, they may make decisions based solely on price or convenience, which could limit our ability to differentiate from our competitors. In addition, providing multiple fulfillment options and implementing new technology is complex, costly, and may not meet our guests’ expectations. If we are unable to offset the increased costs of new technology and expanded fulfillment options with improved performance or efficiencies, our results of operations could be adversely affected. To remain competitive, we must anticipate and adapt to developments and offerings by other retailers. Consumers may also use third-party channels, devices, technologies, and capabilities (including artificial intelligence) to initiate shopping searches and place orders, which could make us dependent on the capabilities and search algorithms of those third parties to reach those consumers. Any failures or difficulties in executing our differentiation efforts could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If we do not anticipate and respond quickly to changing consumer preferences, our results of operations and financial condition could suffer. A large part of our business is dependent on our ability to make trend-right decisions in a broad range of merchandise categories. If we do not predict and quickly respond to changing consumer preferences and spending patterns, we may experience lower sales, spoilage, and increased inventory markdowns, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our ability to predict and adapt to changing consumer preferences depends on many factors, including obtaining accurate and relevant data on guest preferences, successfully implementing new technologies and capabilities emphasizing relevant merchandise categories, effectively managing our inventory levels, and implementing competitive and effective pricing and promotion strategies. We have not always been able to predict rapid changes in consumer preferences and spending patterns, including those that were impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, which has previously resulted in insufficient or excess inventory, increased costs, and adverse impacts on our results of operations. If we are unable to effectively adapt to future changes in consumer preferences and spending patterns, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our continued success is dependent on positive perceptions of Target which, if eroded, could adversely affect our business and our relationships with our guests and team members. We believe that one of the reasons our shareholders, guests, team members, and vendors choose Target is the positive reputation we have built over many years for serving those constituencies and the communities in which we operate. To be successful in the future, we must continue to preserve Target's reputation. Our reputation is largely based on perceptions. It may be difficult to address negative publicity across media channels, regardless of its accuracy or the reputability of its source, including as a result of fictitious media content (such as content produced by generative artificial intelligence or bad actors). Negative incidents involving us, our workforce, or others with whom we do business could quickly erode trust and confidence and result in changes in consumer behavior (including consumer boycotts), workforce unrest or walkouts, government investigations, and litigation. Negative reputational incidents or negative perceptions of us could adversely affect our business and results of operations, including through lower sales, the termination of business relationships, loss of new store and development opportunities, and team member retention and recruiting difficulties. We have recently experienced negative perceptions of our business, which have adversely affected consumer behavior, and we could experience similar occurrences in the future. In addition, stakeholder expectations regarding environmental, social, and governance matters continue to evolve and are not uniform. We have established, and may continue to establish, various goals and initiatives on these matters, including with respect to sustainability and diversity, equity, and inclusion topics. We cannot guarantee that we will achieve these goals and initiatives. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to achieve these goals and initiatives could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. Furthermore, our shareholders, guests, team members, and other stakeholders have evolving, varied, and sometimes conflicting expectations regarding many aspects of our business, including our operations, product and service offerings, and environmental, social, and governance matters. Recently, our inability to meet some of those expectations has adversely affected our reputation, and the inability to meet all of those expectations in the future could adversely affect our reputation with some or all of our stakeholders. Any adverse perception of Target could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition and result in legal and regulatory proceedings against us. Reputational harm can also occur indirectly through companies and others with whom we do business. We have consumer-facing relationships with a variety of other companies, including Apple, CVS, Disney, Levi’s, Starbucks, and Ulta Beauty. In addition, we have relationships with third-party companies that sell and ship items directly to guests through our digital channels. We also have relationships with designers, celebrities, influencers, and other individuals, including for advertising campaigns and marketing programs. If our guests have negative experiences with, or view unfavorably, any of the companies or individuals with whom we have relationships, it could cause them to stop shopping with us and negatively impact our results of operations. If we are unable to successfully develop, source, and market our owned and exclusive brand products, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our owned and exclusive brand products represent approximately one third of our overall sales and generally carry higher margins than equivalent national brand products. If we are unable to successfully develop, source, and market our owned and exclusive brands, or if we are unable to successfully protect our related intellectual property rights, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, our reliance on owned and exclusive brand products may also amplify other risks discussed in this Item 1A, Risk Factors, because many of these products are imported and we are more involved in the development and sourcing of those products. For example, owned brand products involve greater responsible sourcing risk in the selection of vendors, which can exacerbate reputational risk. In addition, owned brand products generally need longer lead times between order placement and product delivery and require us to take ownership of those products earlier in the supply chain. This requires longer-term forecasting of consumer demand, including for categories where consumer preferences may change rapidly, and exposes us to enhanced risks of supply chain disruptions, which could adversely affect our results of operations. If we are unable to protect against inventory shrink, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our business depends on our ability to effectively manage our inventory. We have historically experienced loss of inventory (also called shrink) due to damage, theft (including from organized retail crime), and other causes. We continue to experience elevated levels of inventory shrink relative to historical levels, which have adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our results of operations and financial condition. To protect against rising inventory shrink, we have taken, and may continue to take, certain operational and strategic actions that could adversely affect our reputation, guest experience, and results of operations. In addition, sustained high rates of inventory shrink at certain stores have contributed, and may continue to contribute, to the closure of certain stores and the impairment of long-term assets. Investment and Infrastructure Risks If our capital investments do not achieve appropriate returns or our efficiency efforts are not successful, our competitive position, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our business depends, in part, on our ability to remodel existing stores and build new stores in a manner that achieves appropriate returns on our capital investment. When building new stores, we compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. Pursuing the wrong remodel or new store opportunities and any delays, cost increases, or other difficulties related to those projects could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, remodels and new store projects have previously been, and may in the future be, delayed or cancelled based on changes in macroeconomic conditions, changes in expected project benefits, and other factors, which could result in the inefficient deployment of our capital and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have made, and expect to continue to make, significant investments in technology and supply chain infrastructure. The effectiveness of these investments can be less predictable than remodeling or building new stores, and might not provide the anticipated benefits, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For example, our stores-as-hubs strategy depends on adequate replenishment facilities to receive, store, and move inventory to stores on a timely basis. Underestimating our replenishment capacity needs could result in lower in-stock levels or increased costs for temporary storage. Conversely, overestimating replenishment capacity needs, changes in macroeconomic conditions, changes in expected project benefits, and other factors have resulted, and could in the future result, in delays or cancellations of supply chain infrastructure projects and the inefficient deployment of our capital. Any of these outcomes could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we have undertaken an enterprise-wide initiative to simplify and gain efficiencies across our business, with a focus on reducing complexities and lowering costs. We cannot guarantee that we will realize all of the potential cost savings from this initiative and we may experience difficulties and delays in identifying and achieving such cost savings, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A significant disruption to our technology systems and our failure to adequately maintain and update those systems could adversely affect our operations and negatively affect our guests. We rely extensively on technology systems throughout our business. We also rely on continued and unimpeded access to the Internet to use our technology systems. These systems are subject to possible damage or interruption from many events, including power outages, telecommunications failures, third-party failures, malicious attacks, security breaches, and implementation errors. Any damage or disruption to our technology systems could severely interrupt our business operations, including our ability to process guest transactions and manage inventories, which could adversely affect our reputation, results of operations, and financial condition. For example, in the past, we have experienced disruptions in our point-of-sale system that prevented our ability to process debit or credit transactions, which negatively impacted some guests’ experiences and generated negative publicity. We continually invest to maintain and update our technology systems, but implementing significant changes increases the risk of system disruption. Problems and interruptions associated with implementing technology initiatives could adversely affect our operational efficiency and negatively impact our guests and their confidence in us. Information Security, Cybersecurity, and Data Privacy Risks If our efforts to maintain information security, cybersecurity, and data privacy are unsuccessful or if we are unable to meet increasingly demanding regulatory requirements, our reputation, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. We regularly receive and store information about our guests, team members, vendors, and other third parties. We also rely extensively on information systems throughout our business. We have programs in place to detect, contain, and respond to information security, cybersecurity, and data privacy incidents. However, we may be unable to anticipate security incidents or implement adequate preventive measures as cyber threats continue to evolve and cyberattacks become more sophisticated and frequent, including through the introduction of viruses and malware (such as ransomware) and the use of artificial intelligence by threat actors. In addition, hardware or software that we develop or obtain from third parties may contain defects that could compromise information security, cybersecurity, or data privacy. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our information systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business, through fraud, deception, social engineering, or other bad acts. Errors or malicious actions by our team members or contractors, faulty password management, and other vulnerabilities or irregularities could also overcome our security measures or those of third parties with whom we do business and result in a compromise or breach of our or their information systems. Furthermore, the training we conduct as part of our information security, cybersecurity, and data privacy efforts may not be effective in preventing or limiting successful attacks. Our only significant information security, cybersecurity, or data privacy incident was a data breach that occurred in 2013, which adversely affected our reputation and results of operations. Both we and our vendors have experienced additional information security, cybersecurity, and data privacy incidents; however, to date, these other incidents have not been material to our business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition. Based on the prominence and notoriety of our prior significant data breach, additional information security, cybersecurity, or data privacy incidents could draw greater scrutiny. If we, our vendors, or other third parties with whom we do business experience additional significant information security, cybersecurity, or data privacy incidents or fail to detect and appropriately respond to significant incidents, our business operations could be severely disrupted and we could be exposed to costly government enforcement actions and private litigation. In addition, our guests could lose confidence in our ability to protect their information, stop using our Target-branded payment cards or loyalty programs, or stop shopping with us altogether. Any of these outcomes could adversely affect our reputation, results of operations, and financial condition. The legal and regulatory environment regarding information security, cybersecurity, and data privacy is dynamic and has strict requirements, including for the use and treatment of personal data. Complying with current or contemplated information security, cybersecurity, data protection, and data processing laws and regulations (including reporting and disclosure regimes), or any failure to comply, could cause us to incur substantial costs, require changes to our business practices, and expose us to litigation and regulatory risks, each of which could adversely affect our reputation, results of operations, and financial condition. Supply Chain and Third-Party Risks Changes in our relationships with our vendors or other companies, changes in tax or trade policy, interruptions in our operations or supply chain, and increased commodity or supply chain costs could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. We are dependent on our vendors, independent contractors, and other third parties (including common carriers) to supply merchandise to our distribution centers, stores, and guests. If our replenishment and fulfillment network does not operate properly, if a vendor fails to deliver on its commitments, or if common carriers have difficulty providing capacity to meet demands for their services like they experienced during the COVID-19 pandemic, we could experience merchandise out-of-stocks, delays in shipping and receiving merchandise, and increased costs, which could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. In addition, we have consumer-facing relationships with a variety of other companies, including Apple, CVS, Disney, Levi’s, Starbucks, and Ulta Beauty. Any termination of, or adverse change in, our relationship with any of these companies could decrease our sales, increase our costs, and negatively impact our reputation and results of operations. A large portion of the merchandise that we offer is sourced, directly or indirectly, from outside the U.S., with China as our single largest source of merchandise we import. Any major changes in tax or trade policy between the U.S. and countries from which we source merchandise, such as the imposition of additional tariffs or duties on imported products, could require us to take certain actions, including raising prices on products we sell and seeking alternative sources of supply from vendors in other countries. Any of these actions could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. Political or financial instability, currency fluctuations, the outbreak of pandemics or other illnesses, labor shortages, labor unrest or strikes, transport capacity and costs, inflation, port security, weather conditions, natural disasters, geopolitical conflicts, terrorist attacks, armed conflicts, or other events that could affect foreign trade are beyond our control and could disrupt our supply of merchandise, increase our costs, and adversely affect our results of operations. For example, there have been periodic closings and ship diversions, conflicts, labor disputes, and congestion disrupting railways, trucking, waterways, and ports around the world, including at California ports where we receive a significant portion of the products we source from outside the U.S. We have from time to time made alternative arrangements to continue the flow of inventory as a result of supply chain disruptions in the U.S. and other countries. If these types of events recur and impact any of the locations or modes of transportation that we depend on, it could increase our costs and adversely affect our supply of inventory. In addition, prices of fuel and other commodities on which our supply chain depends are historically volatile and subject to fluctuations based on a variety of international and domestic factors. Rapid and significant changes in commodity prices, as have occurred in recent years, could further increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations. If services we obtain from third parties are unavailable or fail to meet our standards, our reputation and results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely on third parties to support our business operations, including portions of our technology infrastructure, digital platforms, replenishment and fulfillment operations, store and supply chain infrastructure, delivery services (including by independent contractors via our Shipt subsidiary), guest contact centers, payment processing, and extensions of credit for our Target-branded payment card program. If we are unable to contract with third parties having the specialized skills needed to support our operations, if any third-party services are interrupted, or if they fail to meet our performance standards, then our reputation and results of operations could be adversely affected. Legal, Regulatory, Global, and Other External Risks The long-term effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, or the effects of other similar public health crises, may amplify the risks and uncertainties facing our business. The long-term effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, or the effects of other similar public health crises, may amplify other risks discussed in this Item 1A, Risk Factors, including risks related to macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence and spending, supply chain, information security, cybersecurity, and data privacy, and our workforce, any of which could have a material effect on us. For example, the continued utilization of remote working arrangements by our team members, vendors, and other third parties that began during the COVID-19 pandemic increases the risk of a data security compromise and has amplified our already extensive reliance on computing and information systems and unimpeded Internet access. Our earnings depend on the state of macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence and spending in the U.S. Nearly all of our sales are in the U.S., making our results highly dependent on the health of the U.S. economy and U.S. consumer confidence and spending, which can be affected by a variety of factors, including inflation, interest rates, housing prices, unemployment rates, household debt and wage levels, and credit usage. In addition, the interconnected nature of the global economy means that international events such as geopolitical conflicts, terrorist attacks, armed conflicts, public health crises, energy availability, trade disputes, and market volatility can all affect macroeconomic conditions in the U.S. A deterioration in U.S. macroeconomic conditions or consumer confidence or spending could adversely affect our business in many ways, including reducing sales, reducing gross margins, and lowering our credit card profit-sharing revenue, each of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Uncharacteristic or significant weather conditions or natural disasters and the impacts of climate change could adversely affect our results of operations. Uncharacteristic or significant weather conditions, including the physical impacts of climate change, can affect consumer shopping patterns, particularly in apparel and seasonal items, which could lead to lower sales or greater than expected markdowns and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we have significant operations in certain states where natural disasters are more prevalent. Natural disasters in those states or in other areas where we operate could result in significant physical damage to, or closure of, one or more of our stores, distribution centers, facilities, or key vendors. In addition, weather conditions, natural disasters, and other catastrophic events in areas where we or our vendors operate, or depend upon for continued operations, could adversely affect the availability and cost of certain products within our supply chain, affect consumer purchasing power, and reduce consumer demand. Any of these events could adversely affect our results of operations. The long-term effects of global climate change are expected to be widespread and unpredictable. The potential impacts of climate change present a variety of risks. The physical effects of climate change, such as extreme weather conditions, drought, and rising sea levels, could adversely affect our results of operations, including by increasing our energy costs, disrupting our supply chain, negatively impacting our workforce, damaging our stores, distribution centers, and inventory, and threatening the habitability of the locations in which we operate. In addition to physical risks, the potential impacts of climate change also present transition risks, including regulatory and reputational risks. For example, we use commodities and energy inputs in our operations that may face increased regulation due to climate change or other environmental concerns, which could increase our costs. Furthermore, any failure, or perceived failure, by us to achieve our sustainability goals or to otherwise meet evolving, varied, and sometimes conflicting stakeholder expectations regarding the environment, could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. We rely on a large, global, and changing workforce of team members, contractors, and temporary staffing. If we do not effectively manage our workforce, our labor costs and results of operations could be adversely affected. With over 400,000 team members, our workforce costs represent our largest operating expense, and our business is dependent on our ability to attract, train, and retain the appropriate mix of qualified team members, contractors, and temporary staffing. Many team members are in entry-level or part-time positions with high turnover rates historically. Our ability to meet our changing labor needs while controlling our costs is subject to external factors such as labor laws and regulations, unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, benefit costs, changing demographics, and our reputation within the labor market. If we are unable to attract and retain a workforce meeting our needs, our operations, guest service levels, support functions, and competitiveness could suffer and our results of operations could be adversely affected. We are periodically subject to labor organizing efforts and activism, which could negatively impact how we are perceived by team members and our overall reputation. If we become subject to one or more collective bargaining agreements in the future, it could adversely affect our labor costs, how we operate our business, and our results of operations. In addition to our U.S. operations, we have support offices and sourcing operations in India, China, and other countries, and any extended disruption of our operations in our different locations, whether due to labor difficulties or otherwise, could adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to address product safety and sourcing concerns could adversely affect our results of operations. If any of our merchandise offerings do not meet applicable safety standards or Target’s or our guests’ expectations regarding safety, supply chain transparency, and responsible sourcing, we could be exposed to legal and reputational risks and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our vendors must comply with applicable product safety laws, and we are dependent on them to ensure that the products we buy comply with all safety standards. Events that give rise to actual or perceived product safety concerns, including food or drug contamination and product defects, could expose us to government enforcement actions and private litigation and result in costly product recalls and other liabilities. Our sourcing vendors, including any third parties selling through our digital channels, must also meet our expectations and comply with applicable laws and regulations across multiple areas of social compliance, including supply chain transparency and responsible sourcing. We have a social compliance audit process that performs audits regularly, but we cannot continuously monitor every vendor, so we are also dependent on our vendors to ensure that the products we buy comply with applicable standards. If we need to seek alternative sources of supply from vendors with whom we have less familiarity, the risk of these standards not being met may increase. Negative guest perceptions regarding the safety and sourcing of the products we sell could harm our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations. Our failure to comply with applicable laws, or changes in these laws, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to a wide variety of complex laws and regulations. Our expenses could increase and our operations could be adversely affected by changes in law or adverse judicial developments involving our workforce, including an employer’s obligation to recognize collective bargaining units, minimum wage requirements, advance scheduling notice requirements, health care or other mandates, the classification of exempt and non-exempt employees, and the classification of workers as either employees or independent contractors. The classification of workers as employees or independent contractors, in particular, is an area that is experiencing legal challenges and legislative changes. Our Shipt subsidiary has faced, and continues to face, legal challenges to its worker classification. If, as a result of judicial decisions or legislation, Shipt is required to treat its network of independent contractors as employees, we may experience higher digital fulfillment costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in the legal or regulatory environment affecting any other area related to our business, including information security, cybersecurity, and data privacy, product safety, payment methods, or climate and emissions disclosure could cause our expenses to increase and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if we fail to comply with other applicable laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-bribery laws, anti-money laundering laws, import restrictions, responsible sourcing laws, and sanctions programs, we could be subject to legal and reputational risks, including government enforcement actions and class action civil litigation, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Financial Risks Increases in our effective income tax rate could adversely affect our results of operations. Several factors influence our effective income tax rate, including tax laws and regulations, the related interpretations, and our ability to sustain our reporting positions on examination. Changes in any of those factors could change our effective tax rate, which could adversely affect our net income. In addition, changes in our operations both in and outside of the U.S. may cause greater volatility in our effective tax rate. If we are unable to access the capital markets or obtain bank credit, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We are dependent on a stable, liquid, and well-functioning financial system to fund our operations and capital investments. Our continued access to financial markets depends on multiple factors including the condition of debt capital markets, the condition of the banking sector, our operating performance, and our credit ratings. If rating agencies lower our credit ratings, it could adversely affect our ability to access the debt markets, our cost of funds, and other terms for new debt issuances and borrowings. Each of the credit rating agencies reviews its rating periodically, and there is no guarantee that our current credit ratings will remain the same. In addition, we use a variety of derivative products to manage our exposure to market risk, principally interest rate fluctuations. Disruptions or turmoil in the financial markets could reduce our ability to fund our operations and capital investments and lead to losses on derivative positions from counterparty failures, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Executive Overview We continue to make strategic investments to support our durable operating and financial model that further differentiates Target and is designed to drive sustainable sales and profit growth over the long term. During 2023, in support of our enterprise strategy described in of this Form 10-K, we • Expanded our supply chain capacity and digital fulfillment capabilities, including adding three new supply chain facilities to support our growth and commitment to fast delivery times, while helping our teams work more efficiently and managing our shipping costs; • Fulfilled over 60 percent of our digital sales through our same-day fulfillment options: Order Pickup, Drive Up, and delivery via Shipt; • Rolled out Drive Up with Starbucks and Returns with Drive Up nationwide; • Continued to emphasize newness across our assortment and continued to introduce new owned and exclusive brands and designer collaborations, including our first kitchen owned brand Figmint, collections from Kendra Scott, a collaboration with Rowing Blazers, and Stanley drinkware in exclusive colors; • Completed 65 full store remodels and continued to invest in other stores, including projects to increase efficiency of our Same-Day Services, build-out and open Ulta Beauty shop-in-shops, and expand Apple and Disney experiences; • Opened 21 new stores in a variety of sizes with new design elements that reflect the local community; • Invested in team member wages and benefits; and • Offered compelling promotions, attractive every day price points on key items, and free and easy payment and fulfillment options. Financial Summary Fiscal 2023 (a 53-week year) included the following notable items: • GAAP and Adjusted diluted earnings per share were $8.94. • Total revenue decreased 1.6 percent, reflecting a total sales decline of 1.7 percent and a 5.1 percent increase in other revenue. • Comparable sales decreased 3.7 percent, driven by a 2.4 percent decrease in traffic and a 1.4 percent decrease in average transaction amount. ◦ Comparable store originated sales declined 3.5 percent. ◦ Comparable digitally originated sales decreased 4.8 percent. • Operating income of $5.7 billion was 48.3 percent higher than the comparable prior-year period. See below for additional information. Sales were $105.8 billion for 2023, a decrease of $1.8 billion, or 1.7 percent, from the prior year. Operating cash flow was $8.6 billion for 2023, an increase of $4.6 billion, or 114.6 percent, from $4.0 billion for 2022. The drivers of the operating cash flow increase are described on . Note:  Amounts may not foot due to rounding. Adjusted diluted earnings per share (Adjusted EPS), a non-GAAP metric, excludes the impact of certain items. Management believes that Adjusted EPS is useful in providing period-to-period comparisons of the results of our operations. A reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP measures is provided on . (a) 2023 consisted of 53 weeks compared with 52 weeks in 2022 and 2021. We report after-tax return on invested capital (ROIC) because we believe ROIC provides a meaningful measure of our capital-allocation effectiveness over time. For the trailing twelve months ended February 3, 2024, after-tax ROIC was 16.1 percent, compared with 12.6 percent for the trailing twelve months ended January 28, 2023. The calculation of ROIC is provided on . Business Environment In 2023, we experienced sales declines across our business, primarily in each of our Discretionary categories (Apparel & Accessories, Hardlines, and Home Furnishings & Decor) partially offset by growth in Frequency categories (Beauty & Household Essentials and Food & Beverage). This trend of decreased Discretionary category sales began in 2022. In response, during 2022, we took actions and employed strategies to align inventories with sales trends. These actions, as well as improvements in the supply chain, have resulted in decreased inventory in 2023 compared with 2022, as well as a reduction in costs related to managing elevated inventory levels. In 2023, we experienced a significant decrease in freight costs due to a decline in freight rates compared to 2022. We have also experienced lower digital fulfillment costs due to a decrease in digital sales and an increased mix of digital sales fulfilled through lower-cost same-day services. We continue to experience higher inventory shrink, as a percentage of sales, relative to historical levels — including significantly higher shrink rates at certain stores. We believe that this trend is pervasive across the retail industry. Increased shrink has had, and if current trends persist will continue to have, an adverse impact on our results of operations, including impairment of our long-lived assets. to the Financial Statements provides more information on impairment charges, including those related to store closures. The Gross Margin Rate analysis on and Inventory section on provide additional information. Sale of Dermstore In February 2021, we sold Dermstore LLC (Dermstore) for $356 million in cash and recognized a $335 million pretax gain, which is included in Net Other (Income) / Expense. Dermstore represented less than 1 percent of our consolidated revenues, operating income and net assets. Analysis of Results of Operations (a) 2023 consisted of 53 weeks compared with 52 weeks in 2022 and 2021. Note:  Gross margin rate is calculated as gross margin (sales less cost of sales) divided by sales. All other rates are calculated by dividing the applicable amount by total revenue. A discussion regarding Analysis of Results of Operations and Analysis of Financial Condition for 2022, as compared to 2021, is included in to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 28, 2023. Sales Sales include all merchandise sales, net of expected returns, and our estimate of gift card breakage. to the Financial Statements defines gift card "breakage." We use comparable sales to evaluate the performance of our stores and digital channel sales by measuring the change in sales for a period over the comparable, prior-year period of equivalent length. Comparable sales include all sales, except sales from stores open less than 13 months, digital acquisitions we have owned less than 13 months, stores that have been closed, and digital acquisitions that we no longer operate. Comparable sales measures vary across the retail industry. As a result, our comparable sales calculation is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Digitally originated sales include all sales initiated through mobile applications and our websites. Our stores fulfill the majority of digitally originated sales, including shipment from stores to guests, store Order Pickup or Drive Up, and delivery via Shipt. Digitally originated sales may also be fulfilled through our distribution centers, our vendors, or other third parties. Sales growth – from both comparable sales and new stores – represents an important driver of our long-term profitability. We expect that comparable sales growth will drive the majority of our total sales growth. We believe that our ability to successfully differentiate our guests’ shopping experience through a careful combination of merchandise assortment, price, convenience, guest experience, and other factors will over the long-term drive both increasing shopping frequency (number of transactions, or "traffic") and the amount spent each visit (average transaction amount). The extra week in 2023 contributed $1,715 million to total sales. Note:  Sales fulfilled by stores include in-store purchases and digitally originated sales fulfilled by shipping merchandise from stores to guests, Order Pickup, Drive Up, and Shipt. and to the Financial Statements provides additional product category sales information. The collective interaction of a broad array of macroeconomic, competitive, and consumer behavioral factors, as well as sales mix, and transfer of sales to new stores makes further analysis of sales metrics infeasible. TD Bank Group offers credit to qualified guests through Target-branded credit cards: the Target Credit Card and the Target MasterCard Credit Card (Target Credit Cards). Additionally, we offer a branded proprietary Target Debit Card and RedCard Reloadable Account. Collectively, we refer to these products as RedCards™. Guests receive a 5 percent discount on virtually all purchases when they use a RedCard at Target. We monitor the percentage of purchases that are paid for using RedCards (RedCard Penetration) because our internal analysis has indicated that a meaningful portion of incremental purchases on our RedCards are also incremental sales for Target. For the years ended February 3, 2024, January 28, 2023, and January 29, 2022, total RedCard Penetration was 18.6 percent, 19.8 percent, and 20.5 percent, respectively. See the Customer Loyalty Programs section within Item 1. Business on for information about the rebranding of RedCards. Gross Margin Rate Our gross margin rate was 26.5 percent in 2023 and 23.6 percent in 2022. The increase reflected the net impact of • merchandising benefit, including ◦ lower freight costs; and ◦ lower clearance and promotional markdown rates and other costs compared with the prior-year, which included the impact of inventory impairments and other actions; • lower digital fulfillment and supply chain costs due to ◦ a decrease in digital volume; ◦ an increased mix of digital sales fulfilled through lower-cost same-day services; and ◦ lower inventory levels; and • higher inventory shrink. Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) Expense Rate Our SG&A expense rate was 20.1 percent in 2023, compared with 18.9 percent in 2022, reflecting the net impact of cost increases across our business, including investments in team member pay and benefits, and the deleveraging impact of lower sales in 2023 compared to the prior year. Store Data (a) In thousands; reflects total square feet less office, distribution center, and vacant space. Other Performance Factors Net Interest Expense Net interest expense was $502 million for 2023, compared with $478 million for 2022. The increase in net interest expense was primarily due to higher average debt levels and the impact of higher floating interest rates on our interest rate swaps in 2023 compared with 2022, partially offset by an increase in interest income. Provision for Income Taxes Our 2023 effective income tax rate was 21.9 percent compared with 18.7 percent in 2022. The increase primarily reflects higher pretax earnings in the current year, as well as lower discrete tax benefits related to share-based compensation compared to the prior year. to the Financial Statements provides additional information. Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to GAAP Measures To provide additional transparency, we have disclosed non-GAAP adjusted diluted earnings per share (Adjusted EPS). This metric excludes certain items presented below. We believe this information is useful in providing period-to-period comparisons of the results of our operations. This measure is not in accordance with, or an alternative to, generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP). The most comparable GAAP measure is diluted earnings per share. Adjusted EPS should not be considered in isolation or as a substitution for analysis of our results as reported in accordance with GAAP. Other companies may calculate Adjusted EPS differently than we do, limiting the usefulness of the measure for comparisons with other companies. Note:  Amounts may not foot due to rounding. (a) 2023 consisted of 53 weeks compared with 52 weeks in 2022 and 2021. (b) Other items unrelated to current period operations, none of which were individually significant. Earnings before interest expense and income taxes (EBIT) and earnings before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) are non-GAAP financial measures. We believe these measures provide meaningful information about our operational efficiency compared with our competitors by excluding the impact of differences in tax jurisdictions and structures, debt levels, and for EBITDA, capital investment. These measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, GAAP. The most comparable GAAP measure is net earnings. EBIT and EBITDA should not be considered in isolation or as a substitution for analysis of our results as reported in accordance with GAAP. Other companies may calculate EBIT and EBITDA differently, limiting the usefulness of the measures for comparisons with other companies. (a) 2023 consisted of 53 weeks compared with 52 weeks in 2022 and 2021. (b) Represents total depreciation and amortization, including amounts classified within Depreciation and Amortization and within Cost of Sales. We have also disclosed after-tax ROIC, which is a ratio based on GAAP information, with the exception of the add-back of operating lease interest to operating income. We believe this metric is useful in assessing the effectiveness of our capital allocation over time. Other companies may calculate ROIC differently, limiting the usefulness of the measure for comparisons with other companies. (a) 2023 consisted of 53 weeks compared with 52 weeks in the prior-year period. (b) Represents the add-back to operating income driven by the hypothetical interest expense we would incur if the property under our operating leases were owned or accounted for as finance leases. Calculated using the discount rate for each lease and recorded as a component of rent expense within SG&A Expenses. Operating lease interest is added back to operating income in the ROIC calculation to control for differences in capital structure between us and our competitors. (c) Calculated using the effective tax rates, which were 21.9 percent and 18.7 percent for the trailing twelve months ended February 3, 2024, and January 28, 2023, respectively. For the trailing twelve months ended February 3, 2024, and January 28, 2023, includes tax effect of $1.3 billion and $0.7 billion, respectively, related to EBIT, and $26 million and $17 million, respectively, related to operating lease interest. (d) Total short-term and long-term operating lease liabilities included within Accrued and Other Current Liabilities and Noncurrent Operating Lease Liabilities, respectively. (e) Average based on the invested capital at the end of the current period and the invested capital at the end of the comparable prior period. Analysis of Financial Condition Liquidity and Capital Resources Capital Allocation We follow a disciplined and balanced approach to capital allocation based on the following priorities, ranked in order of importance: first, we fully invest in opportunities to profitably grow our business, create sustainable long-term value, and maintain our current operations and assets; second, we maintain a competitive quarterly dividend and seek to grow it annually; and finally, we return any excess cash to shareholders by repurchasing shares within the limits of our credit rating goals. Our year-end cash and cash equivalents balance increased to $3.8 billion from $2.2 billion in 2022. Our cash and cash equivalents balance includes short-term investments of $2.9 billion and $1.3 billion as of February 3, 2024, and January 28, 2023, respectively. Our investment policy is designed to preserve principal and liquidity of our short-term investments. This policy allows investments in large money market funds or in highly rated direct short-term instruments that mature in 60 days or less. We also place dollar limits on our investments in individual funds or instruments. Operating Cash Flows Cash flows provided by operating activities were $8.6 billion in 2023 compared with $4.0 billion in 2022. For 2023, operating cash flows increased as a result of higher net earnings and an improvement in working capital, including lower inventory levels, compared with 2022. Inventory Year-end inventory was $11.9 billion, compared with $13.5 billion in 2022. The decrease in inventory levels primarily reflects • improvements in the supply chain, including on-time arrivals and reduced in-transit inventory, • alignment of inventory levels with sales trends, and • cost decreases, primarily due to lower freight rates in 2023 compared to 2022. The Business Environment section on provides additional information. Capital Expenditures Note:  Amounts may not foot due to rounding. Capital expenditures in 2023 reflect investments in our strategic initiatives, including investments in both stores and in our supply chain. We completed 65 full-store remodels during 2023 and opened approximately 140 Ulta Beauty shop-in-shops. We have completed over 1,100 full-store remodels since the launch of the current program in 2017. In addition to these cash investments, we entered into leases related to new stores in 2023, 2022, and 2021 with total future minimum lease payments of $122 million, $319 million, and $401 million, respectively, and new leases related to our supply chain with total future minimum lease payments of $21 million, $1.6 billion, and $226 million, respectively. We expect capital expenditures in 2024 of approximately $3.0 billion to $4.0 billion to support new stores, remodels and other existing store investments, and supply chain projects. We expect to open about 20 new stores and add additional Ulta Beauty shop-in-shops during 2024. We also expect to continue to invest in new store and supply chain leases. Dividends We paid dividends totaling $2.0 billion ($4.36 per share) in 2023 and $1.8 billion ($3.96 per share) in 2022, a per share increase of 10.1 percent. We declared dividends totaling $2.1 billion ($4.38 per share) in 2023 and $1.9 billion ($4.14 per share) in 2022, a per share increase of 5.8 percent. We have paid dividends every quarter since our 1967 initial public offering and it is our intent to continue to do so in the future. Share Repurchases We did not repurchase any shares during 2023. During 2022 we returned $2.6 billion to shareholders through share repurchase. See , , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and to the Financial Statements for more information. Financing Our financing strategy is to ensure liquidity and access to capital markets, to maintain a balanced spectrum of debt maturities, and to manage our net exposure to floating interest rate volatility. Within these parameters, we seek to minimize our borrowing costs. Our ability to access the long-term debt and commercial paper markets has provided us with ample sources of liquidity. Our continued access to these markets depends on multiple factors, including the condition of debt capital markets, our operating performance, and maintaining strong credit ratings. As of February 3, 2024, our credit ratings were as follows: If our credit ratings were lowered, our ability to access the debt markets, our cost of funds, and other terms for new debt issuances could be adversely impacted. Each of the credit rating agencies reviews its rating periodically and there is no guarantee our current credit ratings will remain the same as described above. We have the ability to obtain short-term financing from time to time under our commercial paper program and credit facilities. In October 2023, we obtained a new committed $1.0 billion 364-day unsecured revolving credit facility that will expire in October 2024 and terminated our prior 364-day credit facility. We also exercised our option to extend our existing five-year unsecured revolving credit facility, which has a maximum committed capacity of $3.0 billion and now expires in October 2028. Both credit facilities backstop our commercial paper program. No balances were outstanding under either credit facility at any time during 2023 or 2022. We did not have any balances outstanding under our commercial paper program as of February 3, 2024 or January 28, 2023. Most of our long-term debt obligations contain covenants related to secured debt levels. In addition to a secured debt level covenant, our credit facilities also contain a debt leverage covenant. We are, and expect to remain, in compliance with these covenants. Additionally, as of February 3, 2024, no notes or debentures contained provisions requiring acceleration of payment upon a credit rating downgrade, except that certain outstanding notes allow the note holders to put the notes to us if within a matter of months of each other we experience both (i) a change in control and (ii) our long-term credit ratings are either reduced and the resulting rating is non-investment grade, or our long-term credit ratings are placed on watch for possible reduction and those ratings are subsequently reduced and the resulting rating is non-investment grade. to the Financial Statements provides additional information. Future Cash Requirements We enter into contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business that may require future cash payments. Such obligations include, but are not limited to, purchase commitments, debt service, leasing arrangements, and liabilities related to deferred compensation and pensions. The provide additional information. We believe our sources of liquidity, namely operating cash flows, credit facility capacity, and access to capital markets, will continue to be adequate to meet our contractual obligations, working capital and capital expenditure requirements, finance anticipated expansion and strategic initiatives, fund debt maturities, pay dividends, and execute purchases under our share repurchase program for the foreseeable future. Critical Accounting Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP, which requires us to make estimates and apply judgments that affect the reported amounts. In the , we describe the significant accounting policies used in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Our management has discussed the development, selection, and disclosure of our critical accounting estimates with the Audit & Risk Committee of our Board of Directors. The following items require significant estimation or judgment: Inventory and cost of sales: The vast majority of our inventory is accounted for under the retail inventory accounting method using the last-in, first-out method (LIFO). Our inventory is valued at the lower of LIFO cost or market. We reduce inventory for estimated losses related to shrink and markdowns. Our shrink estimate is based on historical losses and is adjusted to reflect results of actual physical inventory counts. We generally perform counts at each location annually, with counts taking place throughout the year. A 10% increase in our year-end inventory shrink reserve would increase cost of sales by approximately $150 million. Historically, our actual physical inventory count results have shown our estimates to be reasonably accurate. Market adjustments for markdowns are recorded when the salability of the merchandise has diminished. Salability can be impacted by consumer preferences and seasonality, among other factors. We believe the risk of inventory obsolescence is largely mitigated because our inventory typically turns in less than three months. Inventory was $11.9 billion and $13.5 billion as of February 3, 2024, and January 28, 2023, respectively, and is further described in to the Financial Statements. Vendor income: We receive various forms of consideration from our vendors (vendor income), principally earned as a result of volume rebates, markdown allowances, promotions, and advertising allowances. Substantially all vendor income is recorded as a reduction of cost of sales. Vendor income earned can vary based on a number of factors, including purchase volumes, sales volumes, and our pricing and promotion strategies. We establish a receivable for vendor income that is earned but not yet received. Based on historical trending and data, this receivable is computed by forecasting vendor income collections and estimating the amount earned. The majority of the year-end vendor income receivables are collected within the following fiscal quarter, and we do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that the assumptions used in our estimate will change significantly. Historically, adjustments to our vendor income receivable have not been material. Vendor income receivable was $513 million and $526 million as of February 3, 2024, and January 28, 2023, respectively. Vendor income is described further in to the Financial Statements. Long-lived assets: Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. The evaluation is performed primarily at the store level. An impairment loss is recognized when estimated undiscounted future cash flows from the operation and/or eventual disposition of the asset or asset group is less than its carrying amount, and is measured as the excess of its carrying amount over fair value. We estimate fair value by obtaining market appraisals, obtaining valuations from third-party brokers, or using other valuation techniques. We recorded impairments of $102 million, $66 million, and $87 million in 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively, which are described further in to the Financial Statements. Insurance/self-insurance: We retain a substantial portion of the risk related to certain general liability, workers' compensation, property loss, and team member medical and dental claims. However, we maintain stop-loss coverage to limit the exposure related to certain risks. Liabilities associated with these losses include estimates of both claims filed and losses incurred but not yet reported. We use actuarial methods which consider a number of factors to estimate our ultimate cost of losses. General liability and workers' compensation liabilities are recorded based on our estimate of their net present value; other liabilities referred to above are not discounted. Our workers' compensation and general liability accrual was $650 million and $560 million as of February 3, 2024, and January 28, 2023, respectively. We believe that the amounts accrued are appropriate; however, our liabilities could be significantly affected if future occurrences or loss developments differ from our assumptions. For example, a 5 percent increase or decrease in average claim costs would have impacted our self-insurance expense by $33 million in 2023. Historically, adjustments to our estimates have not been material. Refer to , , , for further disclosure of the market risks associated with these exposures. We maintain insurance coverage to limit our exposure to certain events, including network security matters. Income taxes: We pay income taxes based on the tax statutes, regulations, and case law of the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Significant judgment is required in determining the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items, and in evaluating the ultimate resolution of tax matters in dispute with tax authorities. The benefits of uncertain tax positions are recorded in our financial statements only after determining it is likely the uncertain tax positions would withstand challenge by taxing authorities. We periodically reassess these probabilities and record any changes in the financial statements as appropriate. Gross uncertain tax positions, including interest and penalties, were $366 million and $241 million as of February 3, 2024, and January 28, 2023, respectively. We believe the resolution of these matters will not materially affect our consolidated financial statements. Income taxes are described further in to the Financial Statements. Pension accounting: We maintain a funded qualified defined benefit pension plan, as well as nonqualified and international pension plans that are generally unfunded, for certain current and former team members. The costs for these plans are determined based on actuarial calculations using the assumptions described in the following paragraphs. Eligibility and the level of benefits vary depending on each team member's full-time or part-time status, date of hire, age, length of service, and/or compensation. The benefit obligation and related expense for these plans are determined based on actuarial calculations using assumptions about the expected long-term rate of return, the discount rate, compensation growth rates, mortality, and retirement age. These assumptions, with adjustments made for any significant plan or participant changes, are used to determine the period-end benefit obligation and establish expense for the next year. Our 2023 expected long-term rate of return on plan assets of 6.50 percent was determined by the portfolio composition, historical long-term investment performance, and current market conditions. A 1 percentage point decrease in our expected long-term rate of return would increase annual expense by $41 million. The discount rate used to determine benefit obligations is adjusted annually based on the interest rate for long-term high-quality corporate bonds, using yields for maturities that are in line with the duration of our pension liabilities. Our benefit obligation and related expense will fluctuate with changes in interest rates. A 1 percentage point decrease in the weighted average discount rate would increase annual expense by $36 million. Based on our experience, we use a graduated compensation growth schedule that assumes higher compensation growth for younger, shorter-service pension-eligible team members than it does for older, longer-service pension-eligible team members. Pension benefits are further described in to the Financial Statements. Legal and other contingencies: We believe the accruals recorded in our consolidated financial statements properly reflect loss exposures that are both probable and reasonably estimable. We do not believe any of the currently identified claims or litigation will materially affect our results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition. However, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. If an unfavorable ruling were to occur, it may cause a material adverse impact on the results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition for the period in which the ruling occurs, or future periods. Refer to to the Financial Statements for further information on contingencies. New Accounting Pronouncements We do not expect that any recently issued accounting pronouncements will have a material effect on our financial statements. Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements, which are based on our current assumptions and expectations. These statements are typically accompanied by the words "aim," "anticipate," "believe," "could," "expect," "may," "might," "seek," "will," "would," or similar words. The principal forward-looking statements in this report include statements regarding: our future financial and operational performance, our strategy for growth, the adequacy of and costs associated with our sources of liquidity, the funding of debt maturities, the execution of our share repurchase program, our expected capital expenditures and new lease commitments, the expected compliance with debt covenants, the expected impact of new accounting pronouncements, our intentions regarding future dividends, the expected contributions and payments related to our pension plan, the expected return on plan assets, the expected timing and recognition of compensation expenses, the adequacy of our reserves for general liability, workers' compensation, and property loss, the expected outcome of, and adequacy of our reserves for, claims, litigation, and the resolution of tax matters, our expectations regarding our contractual obligations, liabilities, and vendor income, the expected ability to recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities and the timing of such recognition, our expectations regarding arrangements with our partners, and changes in our assumptions and expectations. All such forward-looking statements are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. Although we believe there is a reasonable basis for the forward-looking statements, our actual results could be materially different. The most important factors which could cause our actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements are set forth in our description of risk factors included in , , to this Form 10-K, which should be read in conjunction with the forward-looking statements in this report. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement.