********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

An investment in our securities involves a degree of risk. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also have a material adverse effect on us. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or business could be harmed. In that case, the market price of our securities could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to our Business Our oil and gas royalty revenue is dependent upon the market prices of oil and gas which fluctuate. The oil and gas royalties that we receive are dependent upon the market prices for oil and gas. When lower market prices for oil and gas occur, they will have an adverse effect on our oil and gas royalty revenues. In 2020, our oil and gas royalties were impacted by lower oil and gas prices and may continue to be affected in future periods. The market prices for oil and gas are subject to national and international economic and political conditions and, in the past, have been subject to significant price fluctuations. Price fluctuations for oil and gas have been particularly volatile in recent years and prices have recently experienced a severe decrease due to increased supply by member nations of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries Plus (“OPEC+”) and general economic downturn. At the same time, COVID-19 has spread to many nations of the world and has resulted in the implementation of numerous actions taken by governments and governmental agencies in an attempt to mitigate the spread of the virus. These measures have resulted in a significant reduction in global economic activity and extreme volatility in the global financial markets. The reduction of economic activity has significantly reduced the global demand for oil and gas. The scale and duration of the impact of these factors remain unknowable but could lead to an increase in our operating costs or a decrease in our revenues and have a material impact on our business segments and earnings, cash flow and financial condition. We are not an oil and gas producer.  Our revenues from oil and gas royalties are subject to the actions of others. We are not an oil and gas producer.  Our oil and gas income is derived primarily from perpetual non-participating oil and gas royalty interests that we have retained. As oil and gas wells age, the costs of production may increase and their capacity may decline absent additional investment. However, the owners and operators of the oil and gas wells make all decisions as to investments in, and production from, those wells and our royalties are dependent upon decisions made by those operators, among other factors.  Accordingly, a significant portion of our revenues is reliant on the management of third parties, over whom we have no control.  There can be no assurance that such third parties will take actions or make decisions that will be beneficial to us, which could result in adverse effects on our financial results and performance. Our revenues from the sale of land are subject to substantial fluctuation.  Land sales are subject to many factors that are beyond our control. Land sales vary widely from year to year and quarter to quarter. The total dollar amount, the average price per acre, and the number of acres sold in any one year or quarter should not be assumed to be indicative of future land sales. The demand for, and the sale price of, any particular tract of our land is influenced by many factors, including the national and local economies, rate of oil and gas well development by operators, the rate of residential and commercial development in nearby areas, livestock carrying capacity and the condition of the local agricultural industry, which itself is influenced by range conditions and prices for livestock and agricultural products. Our ability to sell land is, therefore, largely dependent on the actions of adjoining landowners. 6 Demand for TPWR’s products and services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by our customers. The recent oil and gas industry downturn has (and current market conditions have) resulted in reduced demand for oilfield services and lower expenditures by our customers, which has adversely impacted our earnings, cash flow and financial condition and may continue to do so in the future. Demand for TPWR’s products and services depends substantially on expenditures by our customers for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. These expenditures are generally dependent on our customers’ views of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to our customers’ views of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. Declines, as well as anticipated declines, in oil and gas prices have in the past resulted in, and may in the future result in, lower capital expenditures, project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in payment of, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us, which would adversely affect our earnings, cash flow and financial condition. In 2020, the results of operations for the Water Services and Operations segment have been impacted by reduced demand and declines in expenditures by our customers due primarily to the economic downturn in 2020 resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic  and may continue to be impacted in future periods. We face the risks of doing business in a new and rapidly evolving market for TPWR and may not be able to successfully address such risks and achieve acceptable levels of success or profits. We have encountered and may continue to encounter the challenges, uncertainties and difficulties frequently experienced in new and rapidly evolving markets with respect to the business of TPWR, including: • limited operating experience; • start-up costs for a new line of business; • lack of sufficient customers or loss of significant customers for the new line of business; and • difficulties in managing potentially rapid growth. The impact of government regulation on TPWR could adversely affect our business. The business of TPWR is subject to applicable state and federal laws and regulations, including laws and regulations on water use, environmental and safety matters. These laws and regulations may increase the costs and timing of planning, designing, drilling, installing, operating and abandoning water wells, source water and treatment facilities. TPWR’s business could be affected by problems, slowdowns or other stoppages to operations of providing water treatment critical to the success of TPWR. Our business and financial results could be disrupted by natural or human causes beyond our control . Our revenues depend on natural and environmental conditions with respect to operations that result in royalties to us, or that use our water services. Our business and financial results are therefore subject to disruption from natural or human causes beyond our control, including physical risks from severe storms, floods and other forms of severe weather, war, accidents, civil unrest, political events, fires, earthquakes, system failures, pipeline disruptions, terrorist acts and epidemic or pandemic diseases, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on oil and natural gas production and/or our results of operations. Our business and financial results are subject to major trends in our industry, such as decarbonization, and may be adversely affected by future developments out of our control. Much of the value of the land we own and upon which we receive royalties is based on the oil and natural gas located there. Our revenues may be negatively affected by changes driven by trends such as decarbonization efforts.  Such changes may relate to the types or sources of energy in demand, such as a shift to renewable sources of power generation (such as wind and solar), along with ongoing changes in government, investor, customer and consumer policies and preferences.  The evolution of global energy sources is affected by factors out of our control, such as the pace of technological developments and related cost considerations, the levels of economic growth in different markets around the world and the adoption of climate change-related policies. 7 The loss of key members of our management team or difficulty attracting and retaining experienced technical personnel could reduce our competitiveness and prospects for future success. The successful implementation of our strategies and handling of other issues integral to our future success will depend, in part, on our experienced management team, including with respect to the business of TPWR. The loss of key members of our management team could have an adverse effect on our business. If we cannot retain our experienced personnel or attract additional experienced personnel, our ability to compete could be harmed. Our results of operations for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of our results of operations for a full year. Revenues from oil and gas royalties may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based upon market prices for oil and gas and production decisions made by the operators. Our other revenue streams, which include, but are not limited to, water sales and royalties, easements and other surface-related income and sales of land, may also fluctuate from quarter to quarter. As a result, the results of our operations for any particular quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations for a full year. Global health threats, such as COVID-19, may adversely affect our business. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of a widespread outbreak of contagious disease, including the recent and continuing outbreak of COVID-19. A significant outbreak of contagious diseases in the human population and resulting widespread health crisis could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, resulting in an economic downturn, reduced demand for oil and gas and interruption to supply chains related to oil and gas. The reduction of economic activity and reduced global demand for oil and gas related to COVID-19 and actions taken by governments to mitigate the spread of the virus could lead to an increase in our operating costs and have a material impact on our business segments and earnings, cash flow and financial condition. Risks Related to the Corporate Reorganization We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the Corporate Reorganization and the Distribution, and the Corporate Reorganization and the Distribution may adversely affect our business. We may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits expected to result from our recent Corporate Reorganization and the Distribution, or such benefits may be delayed or not occur at all. The Corporate Reorganization and the Distribution is expected to provide the following benefits, among others: The completion of the Corporate Reorganization will implicate transfer restrictions, and may implicate conditions and covenants contained in certain agreements to which the Trust was a party and thereby may cause us to lose certain benefits that the Trust historically received. If the Company is unable to obtain consents to, or approval or waiver of, any such transfer restrictions, conditions or covenants, or is unable to obtain an acknowledgement that any such benefits shall continue for the benefit of TPL Corporation, we may not be entitled to all benefits and other rights under such agreements, which may have an adverse impact on the business and results of operations. 8 The completion of the Corporate Reorganization will implicate transfer restrictions, and may implicate conditions and covenants, contained in certain agreements to which the Trust is a party and thereby may cause us to lose certain benefits that the Trust historically received. Certain counterparties may withhold consent to, or approval or waiver of, transfer restrictions, or certain conditions or covenants in order to or obtain more favorable terms from us.  If the Company is unable to obtain consents to, or approval or waiver of, any such transfer restrictions, conditions or covenants, or if the Company is unable to obtain acknowledgement from any counterparties that any such benefits shall continue for the benefit of TPL Corporation, then we may decide to enforce our rights and interests by initiating legal action. In the meantime, and pending the outcome of any such legal proceeding to enforce our rights, we may be unable to continue to obtain all benefits and other rights under such agreements that would otherwise be transferred to us as part of the Corporate Reorganization. This may have an adverse impact on TPL’s business and results of operations. Thus far, no such consents, approvals or waivers that have been sought have been denied, but there can be no assurance that such event will not arise as we continue to complete the post-closing requirements of the Corporate Reorganization. For example, the obligation to pay ad valorem taxes with respect to certain of our royalty interests was assumed by a third party and is now the obligation of the successors in interest to such third party (the “obligors”), so long as such royalty interests are held by the Trustees or their successors in office under the Declaration of Trust. Based on a review of public records, we estimate that the payments made for these ad valorem taxes on behalf of the Trust for the year 2020 could be in the range of $4.3 to $7.2 million. The amount of such taxes depends on the valuations determined by various county taxing authorities with respect to our royalty interests and the tax rates used in assessing such ad valorem taxes. Consequently, the amount of ad valorem taxes that may be assessed against our royalty interests may vary from year to year, and we are unable to reliably predict the amount of any such increases or decreases in future years. If, as a result of the Corporate Reorganization, the obligors cease paying these taxes on our behalf, then, pending the outcome of any legal proceeding to enforce our rights, TPL may have to begin paying such ad valorem taxes annually, which would have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. The Corporate Reorganization and the Distribution may have adverse tax consequences. We have obtained an opinion from counsel that the Corporate Reorganization and the Distribution qualified as a tax-free reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a)(1)(F) of the Code. The opinion of counsel does not address any U.S. state or local or non-U.S. tax consequences of the Corporate Reorganization and the Distribution. The opinion assumed that the Corporate Reorganization and the Distribution was completed according to the terms of certain of the operative agreements and required regulatory filings, and relied on the facts as stated therein and in other ancillary agreements and documents. In addition, the opinion was based on certain representations as to factual matters from, and certain covenants by, us and the Trust. The opinion cannot be relied on if any of the assumptions, representations or covenants were incorrect, incomplete or inaccurate or were violated in any material respect. The opinion of counsel is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and no assurance can be given that contrary positions will not be taken by the IRS or a court. We have not sought and will not seek a ruling from the IRS regarding the federal income tax consequences of the Corporate Reorganization and the Distribution. If the Corporate Reorganization and the Distribution were to fail to qualify as a reorganization or for tax-free treatment either under Section 368(a)(1)(F) or any other provision of the Code, then U.S. Holders of Sub-shares would recognize gain or loss, as applicable, equal to the difference between (a) the sum of the fair market value of the shares of TPL Corporation Common Stock received by such holder and (b) its adjusted tax basis in the Sub-shares surrendered in exchange therefor. Further, the Trust would recognize taxable gain as if it sold all of its assets, subject to its liabilities, at fair market value. The consequences of the Corporate Reorganization and the Distribution to any holder will depend on that holder’s particular situation. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We cannot be certain that an active trading market for our Common Stock will be sustained after the Corporate Reorganization and, following the Corporate Reorganization, our stock price may fluctuate significantly. A public market for our Common Stock did not exist until the Corporate Reorganization was effected on January 11, 2021.  We cannot guarantee that the active trading market that has developed will be sustained for our Common Stock after the Distribution, nor can we predict the prices at which shares of our Common Stock may trade. Until the market has fully evaluated our business as a corporation, the prices at which shares of our Common Stock trade may fluctuate more significantly than might otherwise be typical, even with other market conditions, including general 9 volatility, held constant. The increased volatility of our stock price following the Corporate Reorganization may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market price of our Common Stock may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: There may be substantial changes in our stockholder base. Investors in the Trust may have held Sub-shares because of a decision to invest in an organization with the Trust’s governance profile or operating track record. Now that the Corporate Reorganization has occurred, the shares of our Common Stock held by those investors will represent an investment in a company with a different governance profile, in particular a board of directors at TPL Corporation subject to changes from year to year at annual elections of directors serving staggered three-year terms. More frequent changes in the leadership of the organization, particularly on the Board, could lead to changes in the operating policies of TPL Corporation over time. Such changes may not match some stockholders’ investment strategies, which could cause them to sell our Common Stock. These changes may also attract new investors who previously did not invest in the Trust because of its governance profile or operating track record. As a result of such changes, our stock price may decline or experience volatility as our stockholder base changes. Additionally, new investors or leadership at TPL Corporation could advocate for business or corporate initiatives that would not be beneficial for all stockholders, such as an untimely sale of the business. If stockholders were to approve an amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation allowing the issuance of additional equity, holders of our Common Stock could experience dilution in the future. In the future, if stockholders were to approve an amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation allowing the issuance of additional equity, holders of our Common Stock could be diluted because of equity issuances for proposed acquisitions or capital market transactions or equity awards proposed to be granted to our directors, officers and employees subject to any required vote of holders of our Common Stock under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws. We may issue stock-based awards, including annual awards, new hire awards and periodic retention awards, as applicable, to our directors, officers and other employees under any employee benefits plans we may adopt. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation will authorize us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more series of preferred stock having such designations, powers, preferences, privileges and relative, participating, optional and special rights, and qualifications, limitations and restrictions as the Board may generally determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our Common 10 Stock. For example, we could grant the holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of the members of the Board in all events or upon the happening of specified events, or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences that we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of our Common Stock. We may not continue the Trust’s historical practice of declaring cash dividends. We will evaluate whether to pay cash dividends on our Common Stock in the future and we cannot guarantee the timing, amount or payment of dividends, if any. The timing, declaration, amount of, and payment of any cash dividends to our stockholders is within the discretion of our Board and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of our operating subsidiaries, covenants associated with any debt service obligations or other contractual obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice, ability to access capital markets and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. Moreover, should our Board determine to pay any dividend in the future, there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay such dividends or the amount of such dividends. We may not continue the Trust’s historical practice of repurchasing outstanding equity of Sub-share holders. We will evaluate whether to repurchase our outstanding Common Stock in the future and we cannot guarantee the timing, amount or payment of share repurchases, if any. During the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, the Trust approved the purchase and subsequent cancellation of 6,258, 59,185 and 105,715 outstanding Sub-shares, respectively.   The Trust did not purchase any outstanding Sub-shares during the year ended December 31, 2020.  We expect that we will from time to time offer to repurchase a portion of our outstanding Common Stock. However, any repurchase will be within the discretion of our Board and will depend upon many factors, including market and business conditions, the trading price of our Common Stock, available cash and cash flow, capital requirements and the nature of other investment opportunities. State law and anti-takeover provisions could enable our Board to resist a takeover attempt by a third party and limit the power of our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws will contain, and Delaware law contains, provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our Board rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions are expected to include, among others: (a) the ability of our remaining directors to fill vacancies on our Board (except in an instance where a director is removed by stockholders and the resulting vacancy is filled by stockholders); (b) the inability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; (c) rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; and (d) the right of our Board to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (“DGCL”), which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control that you may favor. Section 203 provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with persons that acquire, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation may not engage in a business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which that person or any of its affiliates becomes the holder of more than 15% of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock. We believe these provisions will protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board and by providing our Board with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make the Company immune from takeovers; however, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board determines is not in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders. These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas as the sole and exclusive forums for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could discourage lawsuits against the Company and our directors and officers. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that unless the Company otherwise determines, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or, if such court does not have jurisdiction, the U.S. District Court for the District 11 of Delaware) or the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas (or, if such court does not have jurisdiction, any district court in Dallas County in the State of Texas) will be the sole and exclusive forums for any derivative action brought on our behalf, any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our current or former directors, officers, employees or stockholders, any action or proceeding asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers, employees or agents arising pursuant to, or seeking to enforce any right, obligation or remedy under any provision of the DGCL, the laws of the State of Texas, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws or any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers, employees or agents governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in each such case, subject to the applicable court having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also provides that unless our Board otherwise determines, the federal district courts of the United States will be the sole and exclusive forum for the resolution of any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). To the fullest extent permitted by law, this exclusive forum provision will apply to state and federal law claims, including claims under the federal securities laws, including the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, although our stockholders will not be deemed to have waived our compliance with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. The enforceability of similar exclusive forum provisions in other companies’ certificates of incorporation has been challenged in legal proceedings, and it is possible that, in connection with one or more actions or proceedings described above, a court could rule that one or more parts of the exclusive forum provision in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation is inapplicable or unenforceable. This exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of our stockholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such stockholders find favorable for disputes with the Company or our directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against the Company and our directors and officers. Alternatively, if a court were to find this exclusive forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings described above, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis should be read together with the factors discussed in Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and with the Consolidated Financial Statements, including the Notes thereto, and the other financial information appearing elsewhere in this Report. Period-to-period comparisons of financial data are not necessarily indicative, and therefore should not be relied upon as indicators, of the Company’s future performance. Words or phrases such as “does not believe” and “believes,” or similar expressions, when used in this Form 10-K or other filings with the SEC, are intended to identify “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Overview TPL was originally organized in 1888 as a business trust to hold title to extensive tracts of land in numerous counties in West Texas which were previously the property of the Texas and Pacific Railway Company.  As discussed in Item 1. “Business — General — Corporate Reorganization,” on January 11, 2021, we completed our Corporate Reorganization from a business trust to a corporation changing our name from Texas Pacific Land Trust to Texas Pacific Land Corporation. Our revenues are derived primarily from oil and gas royalties, sales of water and land, easements and commercial leases.  Due to the nature of our operations, our revenue is subject to substantial fluctuations from quarter to quarter and year to year. The demand for, and sale price of, particular tracts of land is influenced by many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, the rate of development in nearby areas and the suitability of the particular tract for commercial uses prevalent in western Texas. We are not an oil and gas producer. Rather, our oil and gas revenue is derived from our oil and gas royalty interests.  Thus, in addition to fluctuating in response to the market prices for oil and gas, our oil and gas royalty revenues are also subject to decisions made by the owners and operators of the oil and gas wells to which our royalty interests relate as to investments in and production from those wells. We monitor reports from the operators, the Texas Railroad Commission, and other private data providers to assure that we are being paid the appropriate royalties. Our revenue from easements is primarily generated from pipelines transporting oil, gas and related hydrocarbons, power line and utility easements and subsurface wellbore easements.  The majority of our easements have a thirty-plus year term but subsequently renew every ten years with an additional payment.  Commercial lease revenue is derived primarily from saltwater disposal royalties, processing, storage and compression facilities and roads. TPWR provides full-service water offerings to operators in the Permian Basin. These services include, but are not limited to, water sourcing, produced-water gathering/treatment, infrastructure development, disposal solutions, water tracking, analytics and well testing services. TPWR's revenue streams principally consist of revenue generated from sales of sourced and treated water as well as revenues from produced water royalties. COVID-19 Pandemic and Market Conditions The increased supply of oil and gas by member nations of OPEC+ and the uncertainty caused by the global spread of COVID 19 led to declines in crude oil prices and a reduction in global demand for oil and gas in 2020.  The full impact of these events, which resulted in production curtailments and/or conservation of capital by the owners and operators of the oil and gas wells to which the Company’s royalty interests relate, is unknown at this time.  These events have negatively affected the Company’s business and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020. During these uncertain times, we have continued to generate positive operating results and remain focused on meeting the operational needs of our customers while maintaining a safe and healthy work environment for our employees.  Our existing information technology infrastructure has afforded us the opportunity to allow our corporate employees to work remotely.  We have deployed additional safety and sanitization measures, including quarantine facilities for our field employees, if needed. In an effort to decrease ongoing operational costs, we have implemented certain cost reduction measures which include, but are not limited to, a reduction in contract labor, conversion of portions of our water sourcing infrastructure to electric power and negotiated price reductions and discounts with certain vendors.  We continue to monitor our customer base and outstanding accounts receivable balances as a means of minimizing any potential collection issues.  As a royalty owner, we have no capital expenditure or operating expense burden for development of wells.  Furthermore, our water operations currently have limited capital expenditure requirements, the amount and timing of which are entirely within our control. 17 The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (“CARES Act”) was enacted on March 27, 2020. The Company evaluated the provisions and potential impacts of this legislation; however, there have been no significant impacts to the Company's results of operations or financial position resulting from the CARES Act for the year ended December 31, 2020. Despite the uncertainty caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting record low oil prices and reduced demand, we believe our longevity in the industry and strong financial position provide us with the tools necessary to navigate these unprecedented times. We have no debt, a strong cash position (cash and cash equivalents were $281.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2020) and we continue to maintain our capital resource allocation discipline. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are revenues from oil and gas royalties, easements and other surface-related income, and water and land sales. Our primary liquidity and capital requirements are for capital expenditures related to our Water Services and Operations segment, working capital and general corporate needs. We continuously review our liquidity and capital resources.   If market conditions were to change, for instance due to the uncertainty created by the COVID-19 pandemic and/or the recent significant decline in oil prices, and our revenue was reduced significantly or operating costs were to increase significantly, our cash flows and liquidity could be reduced. Should this occur, we could seek alternative sources of funding, including potential future borrowing under a credit facility or other financing options.  We have no debt or credit facilities as of December 31, 2020 and have no immediate plans to enter in such arrangements. As of December 31, 2020, we had cash and cash equivalents of $281.0 million that we expect to utilize, along with cash flow from operations, to provide capital to support the growth of our business, particularly the growth of TPWR, to repurchase our Common Stock subject to market conditions, to pay dividends subject to the discretion of the Board and for general corporate purposes. We believe that cash from operations, together with our cash and cash equivalents balances, will be enough to meet ongoing capital expenditures, working capital requirements and other cash needs for the foreseeable future. Results of Operations We operate our business in two segments: Land and Resource Management and Water Services and Operations. We eliminate any inter-segment revenues and expenses upon consolidation. We analyze financial results for each of our reportable segments. The reportable segments presented are consistent with our reportable segments discussed in Note 10, “Business Segment Reporting” in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We monitor our reporting segments based upon revenue and net income calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). Our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 have been negatively impacted by the economic impacts related to the COVID-19 pandemic and the declines in pricing and demand for crude oil that occurred during 2020. Given the uncertainty surrounding the severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic, our results of operations may continue to be impacted in future periods. Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2019 Revenues . Revenues decreased $187.9 million, or 38.3%, to $302.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to $490.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2019.  Net income decreased $142.7 million, or 44.8%, to $176.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to $318.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2019.  Revenues and net income for the year ended December 31, 2019 included a $100 million land sale.  Excluding the impact of the 2019 land sale, revenues and net income (net of income tax) for the year ended December 31, 2019 were $390.5 million and $239.7 million, respectively. 18 The following is an analysis of our operating results for the comparable periods by reportable segment (in thousands): Land and Resource Management Land and Resource Management segment revenues decreased $168.2 million, or 46.3%, to $195.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared with revenues of $363.3 million for the comparable period of 2019.  Segment revenues for the year ended December 31, 2019, include a $100 million land sale.  Excluding the impact of the $100 million land sale, segment revenues for the year ended December 31, 2019 were $263.3 million.  The decrease in Land and Resource Management segment revenues is principally due to decreases in land sales and other operating revenue, easements and other surface-related income and oil and gas royalties, all of which are discussed below. Oil and gas royalties . Oil and gas royalty revenue was $137.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to $154.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, a decrease of 10.8%.  Oil royalty revenue was $109.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to $128.7 million for the comparable period of 2019.  This decrease in oil royalty revenue is principally due to a 24.1% decrease in the average price per royalty barrel of crude oil received, partially offset by an 11.9% increase in crude oil production subject to our royalty interest during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019.  Gas royalty revenue was $28.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, an increase of 10.8% over the year ended December 31, 2019 when gas royalty revenue was $26.0 million. This increase in gas royalty revenue resulted from a volume increase of 27.4%, partially offset by a 6.8% decrease in the average price received for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the same period of 2019. Easements and other surface-related income. Easements and other surface-related income was $39.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, a decrease of 46.0% compared to $73.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2019.  Easements and other surface-related income includes pipeline, power line and utility easements, commercial leases, material sales and seismic and temporary permits.  The decrease in easements and other surface-related income is principally related to a decrease of $29.8 million in pipeline easement income for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the same period of 2019.  The amount of income derived from pipeline easements is a function of the term of the easement, the size of the easement and the number of easements entered into for any given period.  The demand for pipeline easements is determined by capital decisions made by companies that operate in the areas where we own land.  As such, easements and other surface-related income is unpredictable and may vary significantly from period to period. 19 Land sales and other operating revenue .  Land sales and other operating revenue includes revenue generated from land sales and grazing leases.  Land sales were $17.4 million and $135.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2020, we sold 22,160 acres of land for an aggregate sales price of approximately $16.0 million, or approximately $721 per acre.  Additionally, the Company recognized land sales revenue of $1.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 related to land exchanges where the Company had no cost basis in the land conveyed. For the year ended December 31, 2019, we sold 21,986 acres of land for an aggregate sales price of approximately $113.0 million, or approximately $5,141 per acre.  Additionally, the Company conveyed 5,620 acres of land in exchange for 5,545 acres of land.  As we had no cost basis in the land conveyed, we recognized land sales revenue of $22.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. Net income . Net income for the Land and Resource Management segment was $128.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to $258.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2019.  As discussed above, 2019 revenues for the Land and Resource Management segment included a $100 million land sale.  Excluding the impact of the 2019 land sale (net of income tax), net income for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $179.4 million.  Expenses, including income tax expense, for the Land and Resource Management segment were $67.1 million and $105.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.  The decrease in expenses during 2020 is principally related to a $36.7 million decrease in income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the same period of 2019.  The overall decrease of $36.7 million in income tax expense is principally due to $21.0 million in income tax expense associated with the $100 million land sale that occurred during the year ended December 31, 2019 and no comparable sale of assets having occurred during the same period of 2020.  Expenses are discussed further below under “Other Financial Data — Consolidated.” Water Services and Operations Water Services and Operations segment revenues decreased $19.7 million, or 15.5%, to $107.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared with revenues of $127.2 million for the comparable period of 2019.  The decrease in Water Services and Operations segment revenues is due to a decrease in water sales and royalty revenue, partially offset by an increase in easements and other surface-related income, which are discussed below. Water sales and royalties . Water sales and royalties include sales of water to operators and other customers as well as royalties received pursuant to legacy agreements with operators.  Water sales and royalty revenue was $54.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, a decrease of $30.1 million or 35.4%, compared with the year ended December 31, 2019 when water sales and royalty revenue was $85.0 million.  The decrease in water sales is principally due to an 18.7% decrease in the average sales price per barrel of water, a 6.8% decrease in the number of barrels sold and a $7.0 million deferral of water sales related to “take or pay” arrangements during the fourth quarter of 2020.  Additionally, water royalties under legacy agreements continue to decline as these agreements have been replaced with agreements between TPWR and operators.  The revenues related to these legacy agreements decreased approximately $6.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the same period of 2019. Easements and other surface-related income . Easements and other surface-related income for the Water Services and Operations segment includes pipeline easement royalties, commercial lease royalties and income from temporary permits. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the combined revenue from these revenue streams was $52.6 million as compared to $42.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2019.  The increase in easements and other surface-related income was principally related to an increase of $11.6 million in produced water royalties for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the same period of 2019, partially offset by a $1.2 million decrease in temporary permit income over the same time period. Net income . Net income for the Water Services and Operations segment was $48.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to $60.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2019.  As discussed above, revenues for the Water Services and Operations segment decreased $19.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the same period of 2019.  Expenses, including income tax expense, for the Water Services and Operations segment were $59.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to $66.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2019.  Expenses are discussed further below under “Other Financial Data — Consolidated.” Other Financial Data — Consolidated Salaries and related employee expenses . Salaries and related employee expenses were $32.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to $35.0 million for the comparable period of 2019.  The decrease in salaries and related employee expenses during 2020 as compared to the same period of 2019 is principally due to decreased usage of contract labor. 20 Water service-related expenses . Water service-related expenses were $14.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to $20.8 million for the same period of 2019.  This decrease in expenses was principally the result of a decrease in fuel, equipment rental and repairs and maintenance expenses and is directly related to cost saving measures implemented during 2020 and an approximately 6.8% decrease in the number of barrels of sourced and treated water sold, as previously discussed. Legal and professional fees . Legal and professional fees decreased $5.6 million to $10.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 from $16.4 million for the comparable period of 2019.  Legal and professional fees for the year ended December 31, 2020 principally related to our Corporate Reorganization which was effective on January 11, 2021.  Additionally, legal and professional fees for the year ended December 31, 2020 includes $1.35 million representing the final specified settlement payment due under the Settlement Agreement.  See further discussion under Item 1. “Business — General — Corporate Reorganization.”   Legal and professional fees for the year ended December 31, 2019 principally related to the proxy contest to elect a new Trustee, the entry into and payments made under the Settlement Agreement dated July 30, 2019 and the CE Committee. Land sales expenses. Land sales expenses were $4.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to $0.2 million for the comparable period of 2019.  Land sales expenses represent expenses related to land sales and include cost basis and closing costs associated with land sales.  Land sales expenses for the year ended December 31, 2020 include $3.9 million of cost basis. Depreciation, depletion and amortization. Depreciation, depletion and amortization was $14.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to $8.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2019.  The increase in depreciation, depletion and amortization is principally related to the Company’s investment in water service-related assets placed in service in 2020 and 2019 and to a lesser extent, additional depreciation expense related to the change in estimated useful lives of certain water service-related assets in July 2019 as discussed in Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies — Change in Accounting Estimate.” Year Ended December 31, 2019 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2018 Revenues . Revenues increased $190.3 million, or 63.4%, to $490.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $300.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2018.  Net income increased $109.0 million, or 52.0% to $318.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $209.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. 21 The following is an analysis of our operating results for the comparable periods by reportable segment (in thousands): Land and Resource Management Land and Resource Management segment revenues increased $151.9 million, or 71.8%, to $363.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared with revenues of $211.5 million for the comparable period of 2018.  The increase in Land and Resource Management segment revenues is due to changes in oil and gas royalty revenue, easements and other surface-related income, sale of oil and gas royalty interests and land sales and other operating revenue, which are discussed below. Oil and gas royalties . Oil and gas royalty revenue was $154.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $123.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, an increase of 24.9%.  Oil royalty revenue was $128.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $94.6 million for the comparable period of 2018.  This increase in oil royalty revenue is principally due to the effect of a 48.3% increase in crude oil production, subject to our royalty interest, partially offset by a 8.0% decrease in the average price per royalty barrel of crude oil received during the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018. Gas royalty revenue was $26.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, a decrease of 10.9% over the year ended December 31, 2018 when gas royalty revenue was $29.2 million.  This decrease in gas royalty revenue resulted from a 49.3% decrease in the average price received for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the same period of 2018, partially offset by a volume increase of 89.3% over the same time period. Easements and other surface-related income . Easements and other surface-related income was $73.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, an increase of 14.5% compared to $63.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2018.  The increase in easements and other surface-related income is principally related to increases of $4.6 million in pipeline easement income and $3.5 million in commercial lease revenue for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period of 2018.  The increase in commercial lease revenue for the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily due to increased leasing activity compared to the same period of 2018. Easements and other surface-related income includes income from pipeline, power line and utility easements, commercial leases (primarily for facilities and roads), material sales and seismic and temporary permits. The amount of income derived from pipeline easements is a function of the term of the easement, the size of the easement and the number of easements entered into for any given period. The demand for pipeline easements is determined by capital decisions made by companies that operate in the areas we own land. As such, easements and other surface-related income is unpredictable and may vary significantly from period to period. 22 Sale of oil and gas royalty interests. There were no sales of oil and gas royalty interests for the year ended December 31, 2019.  Revenue from the sale of oil and gas royalty interests was $18.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, when we sold nonparticipating perpetual royalty interests in 812 net royalty acres for an average price of approximately $23,234 per net royalty acre. Land sales and other operating revenue .   Land sales and other operating revenue includes revenue generated from land sales and grazing leases.  For the year ended December 31, 2019, we sold 21,986 acres of land for total consideration of $113.0 million, or approximately $5,141 per acre.  Additionally, we conveyed 5,620 acres of land in exchange for 5,545 acres of land.  As we had no cost basis in the land conveyed, we recognized land sales revenue of $22.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2019.  For the year ended December 31, 2018, land sales generated $4.4 million of income for selling 171 acres at an average price of $25,464 per acre. Net income . Net income for the Land and Resource Management segment was $258.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $159.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2018.  As discussed above, revenues for the Land and Resource Management segment increased $151.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period of 2018. Expenses, including income tax expense, for the Land and Resource Management segment were $105.0 million and $51.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The increase in expenses was principally related to increased income tax expense associated with the $130.7 million increase in land sales revenue, resulting in additional income tax expense of approximately $27.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period of 2018.  Through §1031 exchanges, income tax expense of approximately $19.8 million was eligible for deferral for the year ended December 31, 2019.  The remaining increase was principally related to increased legal and professional fees and salaries and related employee expenses.  See further discussion of these expenses below under “Other Financial Data — Consolidated.” Water Services and Operations Water Services and Operations segment revenues increased $38.4 million, or 43.3%, to $127.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared with revenues of $88.7 million for the comparable period of 2018.  The increase in Water Services and Operations segment revenues is due to increases in water sales and royalty revenue and easements and other surface-related income, which are discussed below. Water sales and royalties . Water sales and royalty revenue was $85.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, an increase of 32.9% compared with the for the year ended December 31, 2018 when water sales and royalty revenue was $63.9 million.  This increase was principally due to a 44.0% increase in the number of barrels of sourced and treated water sold during the year ended December 31, 2019 over the same period in 2018, partially offset by decreased water royalties. Easements and other surface-related income . Easements and other surface-related income for the Water Services and Operations segment includes pipeline easement royalties, commercial lease royalties and income from temporary permits. For the year ended December 31, 2019, the combined revenue from these revenue streams was $42.2 million as compared to $24.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2018.  The increase in easements and other surface-related income was principally related to an increase of $21.5 million in produced water royalties for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period of 2018, partially offset by a $4.1 million decrease in temporary permit income over the same time period. Net income . Net income for the Water Services and Operations segment was $60.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $50.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2018.  As discussed above, revenues for the Water Services and Operations segment increased $38.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period of 2018.  Expenses, including income tax expense, for the Water Services and Operations segment were $66.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to $38.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2018.  The increase in expenses during 2019 is primarily related to increased water service-related operating expenses,  principally fuel, repairs and maintenance and equipment rental related to sourcing and transfer of water.  The remaining increase was principally related to increased salaries and related employee expenses as discussed further below under “Other Financial Data — Consolidated.” Other Financial Data — Consolidated Salaries and related employee expenses . Salaries and related employee expenses were $35.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $18.4 million for the comparable period of 2018. The increase in salaries and related employee expenses is directly related to the increase in the number of employees from 64 employees as of December 31, 2018 to 94 as of December 31, 2019 as well as additional contract labor expenses over the same time period. 23 Water service-related expenses . Water service-related expenses were $20.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $11.2 million for the same period of 2018.  This increase in expenses was principally the result of an increase in fuel and repairs and maintenance expenses to source and transfer water and is directly related to the 44.0% sales increase in the number of barrels of sourced and treated water sold as previously discussed. General and administrative expenses . General and administrative expenses increased $4.9 million to $9.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 from $4.7 million for the same period of 2018.  The increase in general and administrative expenses is principally related to increased expenses associated with our independent contractor service providers, computer-related software and services, and additional liability insurance. Legal and professional fees . Legal and professional fees increased $13.9 million to $16.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 from $2.5 million for the comparable period of 2018.  The increase in legal and professional fees for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to 2018 is principally due to approximately $13.0 million of legal and professional fees related to the proxy contest to elect a new Trustee, the entry into and payments made under the Settlement Agreement dated July 30, 2019 and the CE Committee. Depreciation, depletion and amortization. Depreciation, depletion and amortization was $8.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $2.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2018.  The increase in depreciation, depletion and amortization is principally related to the Company’s investment in water service-related assets placed in service in 2019 and the latter half of 2018 and to a lesser extent, additional depreciation expense related to the change in estimated useful lives of certain water service-related assets in July 2019. Cash Flow Analysis Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2019 Cash flows provided by operating activities for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 were $207.0 million and $342.8 million, respectively.  Cash flows provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2019 included proceeds from a $100 million land sale consummated in January 2019.  The decrease in cash flows provided by operating activities was primarily related to decreased proceeds from land sales, oil and gas royalties, easements and other surface-related payments received and water sales and royalties collected during the year ended December 31, 2020. Cash flows used in investing activities were $26.0 million compared to $111.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.  Acquisitions of land and purchases of fixed assets decreased a combined $97.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the same period of 2019.  This decrease was partially offset by the $11.9 million increase in the acquisition of royalty interests during the same comparison periods. Cash flows used in financing activities were $201.7 million compared to $50.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.  During the year ended December 31, 2020, we paid total dividends of $201.7 million consisting of a regular cash dividend of $10.00 per Sub-share and special dividends aggregating $16.00 per Sub-share.  During the year ended December 31, 2019, we paid total dividends of $46.5 million consisting of a regular cash dividend of $1.75 per Sub-share and a special dividend of $4.25 per Sub-share. Year Ended December 31, 2019 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2018 Cash flows provided by operating activities for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 were $342.8 million and $195.4 million, respectively. This increase in operating cash flows is principally due to increases in proceeds from land sales, oil and gas royalties, easements and other surface-related payments received and water sales and royalties during the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018. Cash flows used in investing activities were $111.7 million compared to $81.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The increased use of investing cash flows is principally due to our acquisition of 21,671 acres of land in Texas for approximately $74.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2019.  This increase was partially offset by a $19.3 million decrease in acquisitions of royalty interests and a $15.7 million reduction in capital expenditures during the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the same period of 2018. Cash flows used in financing activities were $50.9 million compared to $70.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  During the year ended December 31, 2019, we paid total dividends of $46.5 million consisting of a regular cash dividend of $1.75 per Sub-share and a special dividend of $4.25 per Sub-share.  During the year 24 ended December 31, 2018, we paid total dividends of $31.7 million consisting of a regular cash dividend of $1.05 per Sub-share and a special dividend of $3.00 per Sub-share.  During the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, we paid $4.4 million and $38.4 million, respectively, to repurchase Sub-shares. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has not engaged in any off-balance sheet arrangements. Contractual Obligations As of December 31, 2020, the Company’s contractual obligations were as follows (in thousands): (1) Includes office leases for our corporate office in Dallas, Texas which expires in 2025 and for our office in Midland, Texas which expires in 2022. Effects of Inflation We do not believe that inflation has had a material impact on our operating results. We cannot assure you, however, that future increases in our costs will not occur or that any such increases that may occur will not adversely affect our results of operations. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. It is our opinion that we fully disclose our significant accounting policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Consistent with our disclosure policies, we include the following discussion related to what we believe to be our most critical accounting policies that require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgment. Accrual of Oil and Gas Royalties The Company accrues oil and gas royalties.  An accrual is necessary due to the time lag between the production of oil and gas and generation of the actual payment by operators.  The oil and gas royalty accrual is based upon historical payments, estimates of the timing of future payments and recent market prices for oil and gas. New Accounting Pronouncements For further information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements, see Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”