********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

An investment in our securities involves a degree of risk.  The risks described below are not the only ones facing us.  Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also have a material adverse effect on us.  If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or business could be harmed.  In that case, the market price of our stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment in our stock. Risks Related to our Business Our oil and gas royalties are dependent upon the market prices of oil and gas which fluctuate. The oil and gas royalties that we receive are dependent upon the market prices for oil and gas.  When lower market prices for oil and gas occur, they will have an adverse effect on our oil and gas royalties.  The market prices for oil and gas are subject to US and global macroeconomic and geopolitical conditions and infrastructure and logistical constraints, amongst others, and, in the past, have been subject to significant price fluctuations.  Price fluctuations for oil and gas have been particularly volatile in recent years due to supply and demand fundamentals, Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) and Russia (collectively referred to as “OPEC+”) actions, the prolonged Ukraine/Russia conflict and general economic cycles, among other factors.  These measures have at times resulted in a reduction of global economic activity and volatility in the global financial markets.  The scale and duration of the impact of these factors remain unknowable but could lead to a decrease in our revenues and have a material impact on our business segments and earnings, cash flow and financial condition. We are not an oil and gas producer.  Our revenues from oil and gas royalties are subject to the actions of others. We are not an oil and gas producer.  Our oil and gas income is derived primarily from perpetual non-participating oil and gas royalty interests that we have retained.  As oil and gas wells age, their production capacity may decline absent additional investment.  However, the owners and operators of the oil and gas wells make all decisions as to investments in, and production from, those wells and our royalties are dependent upon decisions made by those operators, among other factors.  Accordingly, a significant portion of our revenues is reliant on the management and actions of third parties, over whom we have no control.  There can be no assurance that such third parties will take actions or make decisions that will be beneficial to us, which could result in adverse effects on our financial results and performance. Our revenues from the sale of land are subject to substantial fluctuation.  Land sales are subject to many factors that are beyond our control. Our land sales vary widely from year to year and quarter to quarter.  The total price obtained, the average price per acre, and the number of acres sold in any one year or quarter should not be assumed to be indicative of future land sales.  Our desire to sell and the demand and pricing for any particular tract of our land is influenced by many factors, including but not limited to: (i) access and location, (ii) the national and local economies, (iii) the rate of oil and gas well development by operators, (iv) the rate of development in nearby areas, (v) the livestock carrying capacity, and (vi) the condition of the local industries, which itself is influenced by a range of conditions.  Our ability to sell land can be, therefore, largely dependent on the actions of adjoining landowners. Demand for TPWR’s products and services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by our customers. Demand for TPWR’s products and services depends substantially on demand and expenditures by our customers for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves.  These expenditures are generally dependent on our customers’ overall financial position, capital allocation priorities, and views of future oil and natural gas prices.  Declines, as well as anticipated declines, in oil and gas prices have in the past resulted in, and may in the future result in, lower capital expenditures, project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in payment of, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us, which would adversely affect our earnings, cash flow and financial condition.  The results of operations for the Water Services and Operations segment have been impacted from time to time by reduced development pacing and declines in expenditures by our customers in response to varying industry or global circumstances.  Our results may continue to be impacted by producer discretion on development pacing and capital expenditures. 9 We face the risks of doing business in a new and rapidly evolving market for TPWR and may not be able to successfully address such risks and achieve acceptable levels of success or profits. We have encountered and may continue to encounter the challenges, uncertainties and difficulties frequently experienced in new and rapidly evolving markets with respect to the business of TPWR, including: • pricing pressure driven by new competition; • volatile and/or unexpected operating and maintenance costs; • lack of sufficient customers or loss of significant customers for the new line of business; • increased regulation, including with respect to environmental and geological uses and impacts on industry operations; and • uncertainty with outsourced 3rd party provider(s) providing water treatment services. The impact of government regulation on TPWR could adversely affect our business. The business of TPWR is subject to applicable state and federal laws and regulations, including laws and regulations on water use, environmental and safety matters.  These laws and regulations may increase the costs and timing of planning, designing, drilling, installing, operating and abandoning water wells, source water and treatment facilities and impact our customers’ ability to transport, store and/or dispose of produced water in certain locations.  Due to increased seismicity in the Delaware and Midland Basins, the Texas Railroad Commission recently began implementing Seismic Response Areas (“SRAs”) limiting the permitted capacity and use of certain Saltwater Disposal Wells (“SWDs”) for the injection of produced water.  The implementation of SRAs could limit the volume of produced water disposed on the Company’s surface within the SRAs or, in certain cases, could direct additional volumes of produced water to SWDs on the Company’s surface outside of SRAs.  These limitations and/or redirections may cause TPWR to adapt its business plans and could affect TPWR’s financial performance.  The Company continues to actively engage with the Texas Railroad Commission and evaluate the potential effect of SRAs on the Company’s produced water royalties. Our business and financial results could be disrupted by natural or human causes beyond our control . Our revenues depend on natural and environmental conditions with respect to operations that result in royalties to us, or that use our water services.  Our business and financial results are therefore subject to disruption from natural or human causes beyond our control, including physical risks from severe storms, floods, droughts resulting in aquifer declines and other forms of severe weather, war, accidents, civil unrest, political events, fires, earthquakes, system failures, pipeline disruptions, environmental hazards such as oil and produced water spills, terrorist acts and epidemic or pandemic diseases, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on oil and natural gas production and, therefore, our results of operations. Our business and financial results are subject to major trends in our industry, such as decarbonization, and may be adversely affected by future developments out of our control. Much of the value of the land we own and upon which we receive royalties is based on the oil and natural gas reserves located there.  Our revenues may be negatively affected by changes driven by trends such as decarbonization efforts.  Such changes may relate to the types or sources of energy in demand, such as a shift to renewable sources of power generation (for example, wind and solar), along with ongoing changes in regulatory, investor, customer and consumer policies and preferences.  The evolution of global energy sources is affected by factors out of our control, such as the pace of technological developments and related cost considerations, the levels of economic growth in different markets around the world and the adoption of climate change-related policies.  In addition, the possibility of taxes on energy sources, including oil and gas, may affect the demand for crude oil and natural gas and the operating costs for third party operators on our royalty properties. Cyber incidents or attacks targeting systems and infrastructure used by the oil and gas industry may adversely impact our operations, and if we are unable to obtain and maintain adequate protection of our data, our business may be adversely impacted. We and our operators increasingly rely on information technology systems to operate our respective businesses, and the oil and gas industry depends on digital technologies in exploration, development, production, and processing activities.  Threats to information technology systems associated with cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents or attacks continue to grow.  Our technologies, systems, networks, and those of the operators on our properties, vendors, suppliers, and other business 10 partners, may become the target of cyberattacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary, personal and other information, or other disruption of business activities.  In addition, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance, may remain undetected for some period of time.  While we utilize various systems, procedures and controls to mitigate exposure to such risk, cyber incidents and attacks are continually evolving and unpredictable.  Our information technology systems and any insurance coverage for protecting against cybersecurity risks may not be sufficient.  As cyber security threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerability to cyber incidents.  There can be no assurance that our business, finances, systems and assets will not be compromised in a cyber attack. The loss of key members of our management team or difficulty attracting and retaining experienced technical personnel could reduce our competitiveness and prospects for future success. The successful implementation of our strategies and handling of other issues integral to our future success will depend, in part, on our experienced management team, including with respect to the business of TPWR.  The loss of key members of our management team could have an adverse effect on our business.  If we cannot retain our experienced personnel or attract additional experienced personnel, our ability to compete could be harmed. Global health threats may adversely affect our business. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of a widespread outbreak of contagious disease, such as the outbreak of COVID-19.  A significant outbreak of contagious diseases in the human population and resulting widespread health crisis could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, resulting in an economic downturn, reduced demand for oil and gas and interruption to supply chains related to oil and gas.  The reduction of economic activity and reduced global demand for oil and gas related to such outbreaks and actions taken by governments to mitigate the spread of a virus or other infectious agent could lead to an increase in our operating costs and have a material impact on our business segments and earnings, cash flow and financial condition. We face direct and indirect supply chain risks that may adversely affect our business. Our business could be negatively affected by supply shortages and/or price increases driven by the increased costs of materials and logistics as a result of macroeconomic conditions, including the prolonged Ukraine/Russia conflict, general inflationary pressures, labor shortages, part or equipment availability, manufacturing capacity, tariffs, trade disputes and barriers, natural disasters or pandemics and the effects of climate change.  Supply shortages and/or price increases could lead to a reduction in revenues and an increase in our operating costs and could have a material impact on our business segments and earnings, cash flow and financial condition. Supply chain issues may disrupt the operations and development activities of operators on our land, upon whom much of our revenue relies, which could negatively affect our revenues from oil and gas royalties, easements and our water offerings.  Supply chain issues could also lead to an increase in TPWR’s operating costs and disrupt its water sourcing and treatment operations, which could further negatively affect our revenues from our water offerings.  TPWR has adapted lead times for ordering parts and equipment to mitigate supply chain issues, but given the uncertainty surrounding the macroeconomic factors and geopolitical situation, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer adverse effects on our business operations in the future. Risks Related to the Corporate Reorganization The completion of the Corporate Reorganization may implicate conditions and covenants contained in certain agreements to which the Trust was a party and thereby may cause us to lose certain benefits that the Trust historically received.  If the Company is unable to obtain consents to, or approval or waiver of, any such conditions or covenants, or is unable to obtain an acknowledgement that any such benefits shall continue for the benefit of TPL Corporation, we may not be entitled to all benefits and other rights under such agreements, which may have an adverse impact on the business and results of operations. The completion of the Corporate Reorganization may implicate conditions and covenants, contained in certain agreements to which the Trust was, and now TPL Corporation is, a party and thereby may cause us to lose certain benefits that the Trust historically received.  Certain counterparties may withhold consent to, or approval or waiver of, certain conditions or covenants in order to obtain more favorable terms from us.  If the Company is unable to obtain consents to, or approval or waiver of, any such conditions or covenants, or if the Company is unable to obtain acknowledgement from any counterparties 11 that any such benefits shall continue for the benefit of TPL Corporation, then we may decide to enforce our rights and interests by initiating legal action.  In the meantime, and pending the outcome of any such legal proceeding to enforce our rights, we may be unable to continue to obtain all benefits and other rights under such agreements that would otherwise be transferred to us as part of the Corporate Reorganization. This may have an adverse impact on TPL’s business and results of operations. For example, the obligation to pay ad valorem taxes with respect to certain of our royalty interests was assumed by a third party and is now the obligation of the successors in interest to such third party (the “obligors”), so long as such royalty interests are held by the Trustees or their successors in office under the Declaration of Trust.  The amount of such taxes depends on the valuations determined by various county taxing authorities with respect to our royalty interests and the tax rates used in assessing such ad valorem taxes.  Consequently, the amount of ad valorem taxes that may be assessed against our royalty interests may vary from year to year, and we are unable to reliably predict the amount of any such increases or decreases in future years.  We have received an indication from one such obligor that it does not intend to continue to make the ad valorem tax payments that it has been making to date.  We have accrued an estimate of such taxes and are making payments on a current basis in order to protect the royalty interests from any potential tax liens for nonpayment of future ad valorem taxes.  While we intend to seek reimbursement from the third party following payment of such taxes, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in getting reimbursed.  Taking on the cost of such payments will have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. The Corporate Reorganization may have adverse tax consequences. We have obtained an opinion from counsel that the Corporate Reorganization and the Distribution qualified as a tax-free reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a)(1)(F) of the Code.  The opinion of counsel does not address any U.S. state or local or non-U.S. tax consequences of the Corporate Reorganization and the Distribution.  The opinion assumed that the Corporate Reorganization and the Distribution was completed according to the terms of certain of the operative agreements and required regulatory filings, and relied on the facts as stated therein and in other ancillary agreements and documents.  In addition, the opinion was based on certain representations as to factual matters from, and certain covenants by, us and the Trust.  The opinion cannot be relied on if any of the assumptions, representations or covenants were incorrect, incomplete or inaccurate or were violated in any material respect. The opinion of counsel is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and no assurance can be given that contrary positions will not be taken by the IRS or a court.  We have not sought and will not seek a ruling from the IRS regarding the federal income tax consequences of the Corporate Reorganization and the Distribution. If the Corporate Reorganization and the Distribution were to fail to qualify as a reorganization or for tax-free treatment either under Section 368(a)(1)(F) or any other provision of the Code, then U.S. Holders of Sub-shares would recognize gain or loss, as applicable, equal to the difference between (a) the sum of the fair market value of the shares of TPL Corporation Common Stock received by such holder and (b) its adjusted tax basis in the Sub-shares surrendered in exchange therefor.  Further, the Trust would recognize taxable gain as if it sold all of its assets, subject to its liabilities, at fair market value.  The consequences of the Corporate Reorganization and the Distribution to any holder will depend on that holder’s particular situation. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We cannot be certain that an active trading market for our Common Stock will be sustained, and our stock price may fluctuate significantly. A public market for our Common Stock did not exist until the Corporate Reorganization was effected on January 11, 2021.  We cannot guarantee that the active trading market that has developed will be sustained for our Common Stock, nor can we predict the prices at which shares of our Common Stock may trade. Until the market has fully evaluated our business as a corporation, the prices at which shares of our Common Stock trade may fluctuate more significantly than might otherwise be typical, even with other market conditions, including general volatility, held constant.  The increased volatility of our stock price following the Corporate Reorganization may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  The market price of our Common Stock may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations due to factors related to our business; • our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; 12 • changes to the regulatory and legal environment under which we operate; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • the failure of securities analysts to cover, or positively cover, our Common Stock; • changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; • investor perception of our Company and our industry; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in commodities prices; and • domestic and worldwide economic and geopolitical conditions. There may be substantial changes in our stockholder base. Investors in the Trust may have held Sub-shares because of a decision to invest in an organization with the Trust’s governance profile or operating track record.  Since the Corporate Reorganization, the shares of our Common Stock held by those investors represent an investment in a company with a different governance profile, in particular a board of directors at TPL Corporation subject to changes from year to year at annual elections of directors.  More frequent changes in the leadership of the organization, particularly on the Board, could lead to changes in the operating policies of TPL Corporation over time.  Such changes may not match some stockholders’ investment strategies, which could cause them to sell our Common Stock.  These changes may also attract new investors who previously did not invest in the Trust because of its structure, governance profile or operating track record.  As a result of such changes, our stock price may decline or experience volatility as our stockholder base changes.  Additionally, new investors or leadership at TPL Corporation could advocate for business or corporate initiatives that would not be desired by or beneficial for all stockholders, such as an untimely sale of the business. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of the actions of activists. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of stockholder activism, which could cause us to incur significant expense, hinder execution of our business strategy, and impact the trading value of our securities.  In the past, the Company has been the subject of stockholder activism, and we are subject to the risks associated with any ongoing or future such activism.  Stockholder activism, including potential proxy contests, requires significant time and attention by management and our Board, potentially interfering with our ability to execute our strategic plan.  We may be required to incur significant legal fees and other expenses related to activist stockholder matters, and the attention of our management may be diverted by such activism.  While we welcome our stockholders’ constructive input, there can be no assurance that stockholder actions would not result in negative impacts to the Company.  Any of these impacts could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results, and the market price of our Common Stock could be subject to significant fluctuation or otherwise be adversely affected by stockholder activism. If our amended and restated certificate of incorporation is amended to allow for the issuance of additional Common Stock, holders of our Common Stock could experience dilution in the future. If our amended and restated certificate of incorporation is amended to allow for the issuance of additional Common Stock, holders of our Common Stock could be diluted because of equity issuances for proposed acquisitions or capital market transactions or equity awards proposed to be granted to our directors, officers and employees subject to any required vote of holders of our Common Stock under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws.  We may issue stock-based awards, including annual awards, new hire awards and periodic retention awards, as applicable, to our directors, officers and other employees under any employee benefits plans we have adopted or may adopt, using newly issued shares rather than treasury shares as is currently our practice. At our 2022 annual meeting of stockholders, our stockholders voted on a proposal to increase the number of shares of Common Stock authorized under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. A dispute relating to the voting on this proposal was resolved by the Delaware Court of Chancery, which determined that the proposal was approved by stockholders. The decision is currently subject to an appeal, and, therefore, we have not yet taken any action to amend the amended and restated certificate of incorporation. 13 In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more series of preferred stock having such designations, powers, preferences, privileges and relative, participating, optional and special rights, and qualifications, limitations and restrictions as the Board may generally determine in its sole discretion.  The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our Common Stock.  For example, we could grant the holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of the members of the Board in all events or upon the happening of specified events, or the right to veto specified transactions.  Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences that we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of our Common Stock. We may not continue the Trust’s historical practice of declaring cash dividends.  We will evaluate whether to pay cash dividends on our Common Stock in the future and we cannot guarantee the timing, amount or payment of dividends, if any. The timing, declaration, amount of, and payment of any cash dividends to our stockholders is within the discretion of our Board and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of our operating subsidiaries, covenants associated with any debt service obligations or other contractual obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice, ability to access capital markets and other factors deemed relevant by the Board.  Moreover, should our Board determine to pay any dividend in the future, there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay such dividends or the amount of such dividends. We may not continue the Trust’s historical practice of repurchasing outstanding equity of its holders.  We will evaluate whether to repurchase our outstanding Common Stock in the future and we cannot guarantee the timing, amount or payment of share repurchases, if any. During the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company repurchased 27,619 outstanding shares of Common Stock which repurchased shares were placed in treasury.  We expect that we will from time to time offer to repurchase a portion of our outstanding Common Stock.  However, any repurchase will be within the discretion of our Board and will depend upon many factors, including market and business conditions, the trading price of our Common Stock, available cash and cash flow, capital requirements and the nature of other investment opportunities. State law and anti-takeover provisions could enable our Board to resist a takeover attempt by a third party and limit the power of our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain, and Delaware law contains, provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our Board rather than to attempt a hostile takeover.  These provisions include, among others: (a) the ability of our remaining directors to fill vacancies on our Board (except in an instance where a director is removed by stockholders and the resulting vacancy is filled by stockholders); (b) the inability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; (c) rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; and (d) the right of our Board to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (“DGCL”), which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control that you may favor.  Section 203 provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with persons that acquire, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation may not engage in a business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which that person or any of its affiliates becomes the holder of more than 15% of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock. We believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board and by providing our Board with more time to assess any acquisition proposal.  These provisions are not intended to make the Company immune from takeovers; however, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board determines is not in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders.  These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas as the sole and exclusive forums for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could discourage lawsuits against the Company and our directors and officers. 14 Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that unless the Company otherwise determines, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or, if such court does not have jurisdiction, the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware) or the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas (or, if such court does not have jurisdiction, any district court in Dallas County in the State of Texas) will be the sole and exclusive forums for any derivative action brought on our behalf, any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our current or former directors, officers, employees or stockholders, any action or proceeding asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers, employees or agents arising pursuant to, or seeking to enforce any right, obligation or remedy under any provision of the DGCL, the laws of the State of Texas, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws or any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers, employees or agents governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in each such case, subject to the applicable court having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants.  Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also provides that unless our Board otherwise determines, the federal district courts of the United States will be the sole and exclusive forum for the resolution of any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). To the fullest extent permitted by law, this exclusive forum provision will apply to state and federal law claims, including claims under the federal securities laws, including the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, although our stockholders will not be deemed to have waived our compliance with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder.  The enforceability of similar exclusive forum provisions in other companies’ certificates of incorporation has been challenged in legal proceedings, and it is possible that, in connection with one or more actions or proceedings described above, a court could rule that one or more parts of the exclusive forum provision in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation is inapplicable or unenforceable. This exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of our stockholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such stockholders find favorable for disputes with the Company or our directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against the Company and our directors and officers.  Alternatively, if a court were to find this exclusive forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings described above, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation (“MD&A”) is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Texas Pacific Land Corporation.  MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying Notes to Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions.  Actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, those factors presented in Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  This section generally discusses the results of our operations for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022.  For a discussion of the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, please refer to Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. Overview TPL was originally organized in 1888 as a business trust to hold title to extensive tracts of land in numerous counties in West Texas which were previously the property of the Texas and Pacific Railway Company.  As discussed in Item 1. “Business — General — Corporate Reorganization,” on January 11, 2021, we completed our Corporate Reorganization from a business trust to a corporation changing our name from Texas Pacific Land Trust to Texas Pacific Land Corporation. For an overview of our business and discussion of our business segments, see Item 1. “Business — General.” Our business activity is generated from our surface and royalty interest ownership in West Texas, primarily in the Permian Basin.  Our revenues are primarily derived from oil, gas and produced water royalties, sales of water and land, easements, and commercial leases.  Due to the nature of our operations and concentration of our ownership in one geographic location, our revenue and net income are subject to substantial fluctuations from quarter to quarter and year to year.  In addition to fluctuations in response to changes in the market price for oil and gas, our financial results are also subject to decisions by the owners and operators of not only the oil and gas wells to which our oil and gas royalty interests relate, but also to other owners and operators in the Permian Basin as it relates to our other revenue streams, principally water sales, easements and other surface-related revenue. Market Conditions Global Oil and Natural Gas Market Impact in 2023 Average oil and gas prices during 2023 have declined compared to average prices during 2022.  Oil prices continue to be impacted by certain actions by OPEC+, geopolitical factors, and evolving global supply and demand trends, among other factors.  Global and domestic natural gas markets have experienced volatility due to macroeconomic conditions, infrastructure and logistical constraints, weather, and geopolitical issues, among other factors.  In 2023, domestic natural gas prices have declined in part to growing supply.  Since mid-2022, the Waha Hub located in Pecos County, Texas has at times experienced significant negative price differentials relative to Henry Hub, located in Erath, Louisiana, due in part to growing local Permian natural gas production and limited natural gas pipeline takeaway capacity.  Midstream infrastructure is currently under construction by operators to provide additional takeaway capacity, though the impact on future basis differentials will be dependent on future natural gas production and other factors.  Changes in macro-economic conditions, including rising interest rates and lower global economic activity, could result in additional shifts in oil and gas supply and demand in future periods.  Although our revenues are directly and indirectly impacted by changes in oil and natural gas prices, we believe our royalty interests (which require no capital expenditures or operating expense burden from us for well development), strong balance sheet, and liquidity position will help us navigate through potential commodity price volatility. Permian Basin Activity The Permian Basin is one of the oldest and most well-known hydrocarbon-producing areas and currently accounts for a substantial portion of oil and gas production in the United States, covering approximately 86,000 square miles in 52 counties across southeastern New Mexico and western Texas.  Exploration and production (“E&P”) companies active in the Permian have generally increased their drilling and development activity in 2023 compared to recent prior year activity levels.  Per the U.S. Energy Information Administration (“EIA”), Permian production is approximately six million barrels per day, which is higher than the average daily production of any year prior to 2023. 23 With our ownership concentration in the Permian Basin, our revenues are directly impacted by oil and gas pricing and drilling activity in the Permian Basin.  Below are metrics for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022: (1)    Commonly used definitions in the oil and gas industry provided in the table above are defined as follows:  WTI Cushing represents West Texas Intermediate.  Bbl represents one barrel of 42 U.S. gallons of oil.  Mmbtu represents one million British thermal units, a measurement used for natural gas.  DUCs represent drilled but uncompleted wells.  DUC classification is based on well data and date stamps provided by Enverus. DUCs is based on wells that have a drilled/spud date stamp but do not have a completed or first production date stamp. Excludes wells that have been labeled plugged and abandoned or permit expired and wells drilled/spud more than five years ago. (2)    Permian Basin specific information per Enverus analytics.  US weekly horizontal rig counts per Baker Hughes United States Rotary Rig Count for horizontal rigs.  Statistics for similar data are also available from other sources.  The comparability between these other sources and the sources used by the Company may differ. The metrics above show selected domestic benchmark oil and natural gas prices and approximate activity levels in the Permian Basin for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022.  Our oil and gas royalties are impacted by both oil and gas prices as well as production levels.  Oil and gas prices in 2023 have declined compared to the comparable period in 2022.  Despite declining commodity prices, drilling and development activities across the Permian generally remained strong in 2023.  As we are a significant landowner in the Permian Basin and not an oil and gas producer, our revenue is affected by the development decisions made by companies that operate in the areas where we own royalty interests and land.  Accordingly, these decisions made by others affect not only our production and produced water disposal volumes, but also directly impact our surface-related income and water sales. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Our principal sources of liquidity are cash and cash flows generated from our operations.  Our primary liquidity and capital requirements are for capital expenditures related to our Water Services and Operations segment (the extent and timing of which are under our control), working capital and general corporate needs. We continuously review our liquidity and capital resources.  If market conditions were to change and our revenues were to decline significantly or operating costs were to increase significantly, our cash flows and liquidity could be reduced.  Should this occur, we could seek alternative sources of funding.  We have no debt or credit facilities, nor any off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2023. As of December 31, 2023, we had cash and cash equivalents of $725.2 million that we expect to utilize, along with cash flow from operations, to provide capital to support our business, to repurchase our Common Stock subject to market conditions, to pay dividends subject to the discretion of our Board, for potential acquisitions and for general corporate purposes.  For the year ended December 31, 2023, we paid $100.0 million in dividends to our stockholders and repurchased $42.4 million of our Common Stock (including the share repurchases not settled at the end of the period). 24 We acquired intangible assets of $21.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2023, consisting of a SWD easement and groundwater rights.  Additionally, we invested approximately $15.2 million in TPWR projects to maintain and/or enhance our water sourcing assets, of which $3.1 million related to water wells and related infrastructure acquired in conjunction with the acquisition of groundwater rights during the year ended December 31, 2023.  The SWD easement covers approximately 49,000 acres and provides us future disposal opportunities to service injection customers seeking disposal solutions located outside of core basins.  The groundwater rights provide us access to additional water volumes outside of our existing surface footprint to assist in managing fluctuations in customer demand. We believe that cash from operations, together with our cash and cash equivalents balances, will be sufficient to meet ongoing capital expenditures, working capital requirements and other cash needs for the foreseeable future. Cash Flows from Operating Activities For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, net cash provided by operating activities was $418.3 million and $447.1 million, respectively.  Our cash flow provided by operating activities is primarily from oil, gas and produced water royalties, water and land sales, easements, and other surface-related income.  Cash flow used in operations generally consists of operating expenses associated with our revenue streams, general and administrative expenses and income taxes. The decrease in cash flows provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the same period of 2022, was primarily related to changes in working capital requirements over the same time period. Cash Flows Used in Investing Activities For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, net cash used in investing activities was $60.3 million and $21.4 million, respectively.  Our cash flows used in investing activities are primarily related to land acquisitions, intangible assets such as subsurface easements, and capital expenditures related to our water services and operations segment. Acquisitions of intangible assets and land increased $21.4 million and $19.7 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the same period of 2022 and were partially offset by a decrease of $4.2 million in capital expenditures during the same time period. Cash Flows Used in Financing Activities For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, net cash used in financing activities was $144.6 million and $336.8 million, respectively.  Our cash flows used in financing principally consist of activities which return capital to our stockholders such as payment of dividends and repurchases of our Common Stock. During the year ended December 31, 2023, we paid total dividends of $100.0 million, consisting of cumulative paid cash dividends of $13.00 per share.  During the year ended December 31, 2022, we paid total dividends of $247.3 million consisting of cumulative cash dividends of $12.00 per share and a special dividend of $20.00 per share.  We repurchased $42.4 million and $87.9 million of our Common Stock (including share repurchases not settled at the end of the period) during the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. 25 Results of Operations - Consolidated The following table shows our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021 (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2023 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2022 Consolidated Revenues and Net Income: Total revenues decreased $35.8 million, or 5.4%, to $631.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to $667.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2022.  This decrease was principally due to the $95.0 million decrease in oil and gas royalty revenue and was partially offset by the combined increase of $39.5 million in water sales and produced water royalties, and the $22.9 million increase in easements and other surface-related income, over the same period.  Individual revenue line items are discussed below under “Segment Results of Operations.”  Net income of $405.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 was 9.1% lower than the comparable period of 2022, principally as a result of both the decrease in revenues discussed above and the increase in operating expenses discussed further below under “Consolidated Expenses.” Consolidated Expenses: Salaries and related employee expenses .  Salaries and related employee expenses were $43.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to $41.4 million for the comparable period of 2022.  The increase in salaries and related employee expenses is principally related to market compensation adjustments. 26 Water service-related expenses .  Water service-related expenses increased $16.1 million to $33.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the same period of 2022.  Certain types of water service-related expenses, including, but not limited to, transfer, treatment, and water purchases, will vary from period to period as our customers’ needs and requirements change.  Water sales, which increased 32.4% during 2023, were impacted not only by increased customer volumes, but also by higher demand within shorter time commitments and resulted in increased water purchase, treatment and transfer expenses.  While these dynamics in demand resulted in a 92.2% increase in water service-related expenses for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the same period of 2022, the operational decision to meet these demands resulted in increased revenues and operating income over the same time period. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses increased $1.6 million to $14.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 from $13.3 million for the same period of 2022.  The increase in general and administrative expenses during the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the same period of 2022 was principally related to increased expenses for technology applications and increased board fees due to the expansion of our board to 10 directors in April 2022. Legal and professional fees .  Legal and professional fees were $31.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to $8.7 million for the comparable period of 2022.  The increase is principally related to legal expenses associated with stockholder matters.  See further discussion in Part I - Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Ad valorem and other taxes .  Ad valorem and other taxes were $7.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $8.9 million for the comparable period of 2022.  Ad valorem taxes for the year ended December 31, 2022 included payments for prior year ad valorem tax liabilities which had not been paid by the third party responsible for those ad valorem taxes.  Prior to January 1, 2022, the ad valorem taxes with respect to our historical royalty interests were paid directly by third parties pursuant to an existing arrangement.  Since the completion of our Corporate Reorganization on January 11, 2021, we have received notice from a third party that it no longer intends to pay the ad valorem taxes related to such historical royalty interests.  While we continue to believe the obligation to pay these ad valorem taxes should belong to the third party, we have accrued and/or paid an estimate of such taxes in order to protect the royalty interests from any potential tax liens for nonpayment of ad valorem taxes.  While we intend to seek reimbursement from the third party following payment of such taxes, we are unable to determine the amount and/or likelihood of such reimbursement, and accordingly, have not recorded a loss recovery receivable as of December 31, 2023. Other income, net. Other income, net was $31.5 million and $6.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.  The increase in other income, net is primarily related to increased interest income earned on our cash balances during 2023.  Higher cash balances and interest yields during this period contributed to the increase in interest income. Total income tax expense. Total income tax expense was $111.9 million and $122.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.  The decrease in income tax expense is primarily related to decreased operating income resulting from decreased oil and gas royalty revenue and increased operating expenses. Segment Results of Operations We operate our business in two reportable segments: Land and Resource Management and Water Services and Operations.  We eliminate any inter-segment revenues and expenses upon consolidation. We evaluate the performance of our operating segments separately to monitor the different factors affecting financial results.  The reportable segments presented are consistent with our reportable segments discussed in Note 14, “Business Segment Reporting” in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We monitor our reporting segments based upon revenue and net income calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). Our oil and gas royalty revenue, and, in turn, our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2023 have been impacted by lower average commodity prices compared to 2022.  The decline in oil and gas royalty revenues has been partially offset by increases in revenues derived from water sales, easements and other surface-related income, and produced water royalties which have been positively impacted by ongoing development activity in the Permian Basin. 27 Year Ended December 31, 2023 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2022 The following is an analysis of our operating results for the comparable periods by reportable segment (dollars presented in thousands): Land and Resource Management Land and Resource Management segment revenues decreased $74.9 million, or 14.8%, to $432.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the same period of 2022.  The decrease in Land and Resource Management segment revenues is due to a $95.0 million decrease in oil and gas royalties for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the same period of 2022.  The decrease in oil and gas royalty revenue was partially offset by a $23.3 million increase in easements and other surface-related income over the same time period. Oil and gas royalties .  Oil and gas royalty revenue was $357.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to $452.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, a decrease of 21.0%.  Oil and gas royalties for the year ended December 31, 2023 included an $8.7 million recovery, discussed further in the following paragraph.  Excluding the $8.7 million recovery, oil and gas royalties decreased $103.7 million due to lower average commodity prices during the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the same period of 2022.  The average realized prices declined 30.0% to $42.58 per Boe for the year ended December 31, 2023 from $60.81 per Boe for the same period of 2022.  Our share of crude oil, natural gas and NGL production volumes was 23.5 thousand Boe per day for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to 21.3 thousand Boe per day for the same period of 2022. As part of an ongoing arbitration between TPL and an operator with respect to underpayment of oil and gas royalties resulting from improper deductions of post-production costs by the operator for production periods before and through June 2023, the operator has agreed to pay $10.1 million to TPL, comprised of $8.7 million of unpaid oil and gas royalties, $0.9 million of interest and $0.5 million of damages (the “O&G Settlement”).  The full amount of $10.1 million has been recorded as a receivable, $8.7 million has been included in oil and gas royalty revenue and the remaining $1.4 million has been recorded as other income in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2023.  The Company received payment from the operator for the full amount in January 2024. 28 The table below provides financial and operational data by royalty stream for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 and excludes the O&G Settlement discussed above: (1)    Commonly used definitions in the oil and gas industry not previously defined: Boe represents barrels of oil equivalent.  MBbls represents one thousand barrels of crude oil, condensate or NGLs.  Mcf represents one thousand cubic feet of natural gas.  MMcf represents one million cubic feet of natural gas.  MBoe represents one thousand Boe.  MBoe/d represents one thousand Boe per day. (2)    The metrics provided exclude the impact of the $8.7 million of oil and gas royalties from the O&G Settlement discussed above. Easements and other surface-related income. Easements and other surface-related income was $67.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, an increase of 52.4% compared to $44.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2022.  Easements and other surface-related income includes revenue related to the use and crossing of our land for oil and gas exploration and production, renewable energy, and agricultural operations.  The increase in easements and other surface-related income is principally related to increases of $13.6 million in pipeline easements and $5.3 million in material sales (caliche and sand) for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the same period of 2022.  The amount of income derived from pipeline easements is a function of the term of the easement, the size of the easement and the number of easements entered into for any given period.  Easements and other surface-related income is dependent on development decisions made by companies that operate in the areas where we own land and is, therefore, unpredictable and may vary significantly from period to period.  See “Market Conditions” above for additional discussion of development activity in the Permian Basin during the year ended December 31, 2023. Land sales and other operating revenue .  Land sales and other operating revenue was $6.8 million and $10.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.  For the year ended December 31, 2023, we sold 18,061 acres of land for an aggregate sales price of $6.8 million.  For the year ended December 31, 2022, we sold 6,392 acres of land for an aggregate sales price of approximately $9.7 million. Net income. Net income for the Land and Resource Management segment decreased 16.0% to $306.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to $365.0 million for the comparable period in 2022.  Segment operating income decreased $98.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the same period of 2022, largely driven by the $95.0 million decrease in oil and gas royalty revenue.  Expenses are discussed further above under “Results of Operations.” 29 Water Services and Operations Water Services and Operations segment revenues increased 24.3%, to $199.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared with $160.4 million for the comparable period of 2022.  The increase in Water Services and Operations segment revenues is principally due to increases in water sales revenue and produced water royalties, which are discussed below.  As discussed in “Market Conditions” above, our segment revenues are directly influenced by development decisions made by our customers and the overall activity level in the Permian Basin.  Accordingly, our segment revenues and sales volumes, as further discussed below, will fluctuate from period to period based upon those decisions and activity levels. Water sales .  Water sales revenue increased $27.5 million, or 32.4% to $112.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the same period of 2022.  The growth in water sales is principally due to an increase of 21.8% in water sales volumes for the years ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. Produced water royalties. Produced water royalties are royalties received from the transfer or disposal of produced water on our land.  Produced water royalties are contractual and not paid as a matter of right.  We do not operate any salt water disposal wells.  Produced water royalties were $84.3 million  for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to $72.2 million for the same period in 2022.  This increase is principally due to increased produced water volumes for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the same period of 2022. Net income .  Net income for the Water Services and Operations segment was $98.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to $81.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2022.  Segment operating income increased $22.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the same period of 2022.  The increase is principally due to the $39.0 million increase in segment revenues which were partially offset by the $16.1 million increase in water service-related expenses and the $5.4 million increase in income tax expense.  Expenses are discussed further above under “Results of Operations.” Non-GAAP Performance Measures In addition to amounts presented in accordance with GAAP, we also present certain supplemental non-GAAP performance measurements.  These measurements are not to be considered more relevant or accurate than the measurements presented in accordance with GAAP.  In compliance with the requirements of the SEC, our non-GAAP measurements are reconciled to net income, the most directly comparable GAAP performance measure.  For all non-GAAP measurements, neither the SEC nor any other regulatory body has passed judgment on these non-GAAP measurements. EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Free Cash Flow EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measurement of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, depletion and amortization.  Its purpose is to highlight earnings without finance, taxes, and depreciation, depletion and amortization expense, and its use is limited to specialized analysis.  We calculate Adjusted EBITDA as EBITDA excluding employee share-based compensation.  Its purpose is to highlight earnings without non-cash activity such as share-based compensation and/or other non-recurring or unusual items.  We calculate Free Cash Flow as Adjusted EBITDA less current income tax expense and capital expenditures.  Its purpose is to provide an additional measure of operating performance.  We have presented EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Free Cash Flow because we believe that these metrics are useful supplements to net income in analyzing the Company's operating performance.  Our definitions of Adjusted EBITDA and Free Cash Flow may differ from computations of similarly titled measures of other companies. 30 The following table presents a reconciliation of net income to EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Free Cash Flow for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021 (in thousands): Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has not engaged in any off-balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements.  It is our opinion that we fully disclose our significant accounting policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  Consistent with our disclosure policies, we include the following discussion related to what we believe to be our most critical accounting policies that require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgment. Accrual of Oil and Gas Royalties The Company accrues oil and gas royalties.  An accrual is necessary due to the time lag between the removal of crude oil and natural gas products from the respective mineral reserve locations and generation of the actual payment by operators.  The oil and gas royalty accrual is based upon historical production volumes, estimates of the timing of future payments and recent market prices for oil and gas. New Accounting Pronouncements For further information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements, see Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”