********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

An investment in our securities involves a degree of risk. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also have a material adverse effect on us. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or business could be harmed. In that case, the market price of our stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment in our stock. Risks Related to our Business Our oil and gas royalty revenue is dependent upon the market prices of oil and gas which fluctuate. The oil and gas royalties that we receive are dependent upon the market prices for oil and gas. When lower market prices for oil and gas occur, they will have an adverse effect on our oil and gas royalty revenues and vice-versa. In 2021, oil and gas prices rebounded from the prior year, which positively affected our oil and gas royalties.  In 2020, lower oil and gas prices negatively impacted our oil and gas royalty revenue. The market prices for oil and gas are subject to national and international economic and political conditions and, in the past, have been subject to significant price fluctuations. Price fluctuations for oil and gas have been particularly volatile in recent years due to supply and demand fundamentals, Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) and Russia (collectively referred to as “OPEC+”) actions, and general economic cycles, among other factors. At the same time, COVID-19 continues to affect some nations and has resulted in the implementation of actions taken by governments and governmental agencies in an attempt to mitigate the spread of the virus. These measures have at times resulted in a reduction to global economic activity and volatility in the global financial markets. The scale and duration of the impact of these factors remain unknowable but could lead to an increase in our operating costs or a decrease in our revenues and have a material impact on our business segments and earnings, cash flow and financial condition. We are not an oil and gas producer.  Our revenues from oil and gas royalties are subject to the actions of others. We are not an oil and gas producer.  Our oil and gas income is derived primarily from perpetual non-participating oil and gas royalty interests that we have retained. As oil and gas wells age, their production capacity may decline absent additional investment. However, the owners and operators of the oil and gas wells make all decisions as to investments in, and production from, those wells and our royalties are dependent upon decisions made by those operators, among other factors.  Accordingly, a significant portion of our revenues is reliant on the management of third parties, over whom we have no control.  There can be no assurance that such third parties will take actions or make decisions that will be beneficial to us, which could result in adverse effects on our financial results and performance. Our revenues from the sale of land are subject to substantial fluctuation.  Land sales are subject to many factors that are beyond our control. Land sales vary widely from year to year and quarter to quarter. The total dollar amount, the average price per acre, and the number of acres sold in any one year or quarter should not be assumed to be indicative of future land sales. Our desire to sell and the demand and pricing for any particular tract of our land is influenced by many factors, including but not limited to: (i) the national and local economies, (ii) the rate of oil and gas well development by operators, (iii) the rate of residential and commercial development in nearby areas, (iv) the livestock carrying capacity, and (v) the condition of the local agricultural industry, which itself is influenced by range conditions and livestock and agricultural product pricing. Our ability to sell land can be, therefore, largely dependent on the actions of adjoining landowners. Demand for TPWR’s products and services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by our customers. Demand for TPWR’s products and services depends substantially on expenditures by our customers for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. These expenditures are generally dependent on our customers’ overall financial position, capital allocation priorities, and views of future oil and natural gas prices. Declines, as well as anticipated declines, in oil and gas prices have in the past resulted in, and may in the future result in, lower capital expenditures, project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in payment of, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us, which would adversely affect our earnings, cash flow and financial condition. The results of operations for the Water Services and Operations segment have been impacted by reduced development pacing and declines in expenditures by our customers compared to pre-pandemic levels. Though 2021 performance for the 7 Water Service and Operations segment has rebounded from depressed 2020 levels, future periods may continue to be impacted by producer discretion on development pacing and capital expenditures. We face the risks of doing business in a new and rapidly evolving market for TPWR and may not be able to successfully address such risks and achieve acceptable levels of success or profits. We have encountered and may continue to encounter the challenges, uncertainties and difficulties frequently experienced in new and rapidly evolving markets with respect to the business of TPWR, including: • pricing pressure driven by new competition; • volatile and/or unexpected operating and maintenance costs; • lack of sufficient customers or loss of significant customers for the new line of business; and • increased regulation impacting industry operations. The impact of government regulation on TPWR could adversely affect our business. The business of TPWR is subject to applicable state and federal laws and regulations, including laws and regulations on water use, environmental and safety matters. These laws and regulations may increase the costs and timing of planning, designing, drilling, installing, operating and abandoning water wells, source water and treatment facilities and impact our customers’ ability to transport and/or store produced water in certain locations. Our business and financial results could be disrupted by natural or human causes beyond our control . Our revenues depend on natural and environmental conditions with respect to operations that result in royalties to us, or that use our water services. Our business and financial results are therefore subject to disruption from natural or human causes beyond our control, including physical risks from severe storms, floods and other forms of severe weather, war, accidents, civil unrest, political events, fires, earthquakes, system failures, pipeline disruptions, terrorist acts and epidemic or pandemic diseases, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on oil and natural gas production and/or our results of operations. Our business and financial results are subject to major trends in our industry, such as decarbonization, and may be adversely affected by future developments out of our control. Much of the value of the land we own and upon which we receive royalties is based on the oil and natural gas reserves located there. Our revenues may be negatively affected by changes driven by trends such as decarbonization efforts.  Such changes may relate to the types or sources of energy in demand, such as a shift to renewable sources of power generation (such as wind and solar), along with ongoing changes in government, investor, customer and consumer policies and preferences.  The evolution of global energy sources is affected by factors out of our control, such as the pace of technological developments and related cost considerations, the levels of economic growth in different markets around the world and the adoption of climate change-related policies. Cyber incidents or attacks targeting systems and infrastructure used by the oil and gas industry may adversely impact our operations, and if we are unable to obtain and maintain adequate protection of our data, our business may be adversely impacted. We and our operators increasingly rely on information technology systems to operate our respective businesses, and the oil and gas industry depends on digital technologies in exploration, development, production, and processing activities. Threats to information technology systems associated with cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents or attacks continue to grow. Our technologies, systems, networks, and those of the operators on our properties, vendors, suppliers, and other business partners, may become the target of cyberattacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary and other information, or other disruption of business activities. In addition, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance, may remain undetected for some period of time. While we utilize various systems, procedures and controls to mitigate exposure to such risk, cyber incidents and attacks are continually evolving and unpredictable. Our information technology systems and any insurance coverage for protecting against cybersecurity risks may not be sufficient. As cyber security threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerability to cyber incidents. There can be no assurance that our business, finances, systems and assets will not be compromised in a cyber attack. 8 The loss of key members of our management team or difficulty attracting and retaining experienced technical personnel could reduce our competitiveness and prospects for future success. The successful implementation of our strategies and handling of other issues integral to our future success will depend, in part, on our experienced management team, including with respect to the business of TPWR. The loss of key members of our management team could have an adverse effect on our business. If we cannot retain our experienced personnel or attract additional experienced personnel, our ability to compete could be harmed. Our results of operations for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of our results of operations for a full year. Revenues from oil and gas royalties may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based upon market prices for oil and gas and production decisions made by the operators. Our other revenue streams, which include, but are not limited to, water sales and royalties, easements and other surface-related income and sales of land, may also fluctuate from quarter to quarter. As a result, the results of our operations for any particular quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations for a full year. We recently identified a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting and determined that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective. Based on management’s assessment, we concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2021 and that we had as of such date a material weakness related to accounting for income taxes. The specific factors leading to this conclusion are described in Part II, Item 9A. “Controls and Procedures” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim consolidated financial statements would not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The material weakness identified by management relates to the design of internal controls over the periodic evaluation of historical tax returns for uncertain tax positions in accounting for income taxes.  As a result of this design gap, management did not timely identify the incorrect tax treatment of depletion related to our oil and gas royalty interests in our filed income tax returns related to prior periods until the fourth quarter of 2021.  The material weakness led to the understatement of income tax expense and income taxes payable for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2019, and 2020 and the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2021, June 30, 2021, and September 30, 2021.   Management evaluated the effects of the out-of-period adjustment related to prior periods, both quantitatively and qualitatively, and concluded that this adjustment was not material to the Company’s financial position or results of operations for the current or any prior periods.  As of December 31, 2021, this material weakness had not been remediated. During the first quarter of 2022, we implemented a remediation plan to update the design and implementation of controls to remediate the above-mentioned deficiency and enhance the Company's internal control environment.  If our remedial measures are insufficient, or if additional material weakness or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting or in our disclosure controls occur in the future, our future consolidated financial statements or other information filed with the SEC may contain material misstatements and could require a restatement of our consolidated financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in the market value of our securities. Global health threats, such as COVID-19, may adversely affect our business. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of a widespread outbreak of contagious disease, including the recent and continuing outbreak of COVID-19. A significant outbreak of contagious diseases in the human population and resulting widespread health crisis could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, resulting in an economic downturn, reduced demand for oil and gas and interruption to supply chains related to oil and gas. The reduction of economic activity and reduced global demand for oil and gas related to COVID-19 and actions taken by governments to mitigate the spread of the virus could lead to an increase in our operating costs and have a material impact on our business segments and earnings, cash flow and financial condition. Risks Related to the Corporate Reorganization We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the Corporate Reorganization, and the Corporate Reorganization may adversely affect our business. We may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits expected to result from our Corporate Reorganization, or such benefits may be delayed or not occur at all. The Corporate Reorganization, as compared to the Company’s former structure as a trust, provides the following benefits, among others: 9 • Greater Stockholders’ Rights. The ability of our stockholders to regularly vote for directors is expected to provide stability among our directors while giving stockholders a voice in periodic board refreshment. • Diverse Leadership. Our Board, composed of nine members, is anticipated to reflect a diversity of expertise, perspectives and backgrounds. Eight of the nine members are independent directors. • Delaware Corporate Legal Regime. The Corporate Reorganization allows the Company and its stockholders to benefit from the predictability and responsiveness of the Delaware legal regime for corporations. • Greater Trading Liquidity. The Company’s Common Stock is eligible for inclusion in certain indices, which we believe will make the stock more attractive for institutional investors, thereby promoting demand and increasing trading liquidity. The completion of the Corporate Reorganization may implicate conditions and covenants contained in certain agreements to which the Trust was a party and thereby may cause us to lose certain benefits that the Trust historically received. If the Company is unable to obtain consents to, or approval or waiver of, any such conditions or covenants, or is unable to obtain an acknowledgement that any such benefits shall continue for the benefit of TPL Corporation, we may not be entitled to all benefits and other rights under such agreements, which may have an adverse impact on the business and results of operations. The completion of the Corporate Reorganization may implicate conditions and covenants, contained in certain agreements to which the Trust was, and now TPL Corporation is, a party and thereby may cause us to lose certain benefits that the Trust historically received. Certain counterparties may withhold consent to, or approval or waiver of, certain conditions or covenants in order to obtain more favorable terms from us.  If the Company is unable to obtain consents to, or approval or waiver of, any such conditions or covenants, or if the Company is unable to obtain acknowledgement from any counterparties that any such benefits shall continue for the benefit of TPL Corporation, then we may decide to enforce our rights and interests by initiating legal action. In the meantime, and pending the outcome of any such legal proceeding to enforce our rights, we may be unable to continue to obtain all benefits and other rights under such agreements that would otherwise be transferred to us as part of the Corporate Reorganization. This may have an adverse impact on TPL’s business and results of operations. For example, the obligation to pay ad valorem taxes with respect to certain of our royalty interests was assumed by a third party and is now the obligation of the successors in interest to such third party (the “obligors”), so long as such royalty interests are held by the Trustees or their successors in office under the Declaration of Trust. The amount of such taxes depends on the valuations determined by various county taxing authorities with respect to our royalty interests and the tax rates used in assessing such ad valorem taxes. Consequently, the amount of ad valorem taxes that may be assessed against our royalty interests may vary from year to year, and we are unable to reliably predict the amount of any such increases or decreases in future years. We have received an indication from one such obligor that it does not intend to continue to make the ad valorem tax payments that it has been making to date.  We may undertake legal proceedings to enforce our rights, and the outcome of any such proceeding is unknown.  If, as a result of the Corporate Reorganization, the obligors cease paying these taxes on our behalf, then, pending the outcome of any legal proceeding to enforce our rights, TPL may have to begin paying such ad valorem taxes annually, which would have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. The Corporate Reorganization may have adverse tax consequences. We have obtained an opinion from counsel that the Corporate Reorganization and the Distribution qualified as a tax-free reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a)(1)(F) of the Code. The opinion of counsel does not address any U.S. state or local or non-U.S. tax consequences of the Corporate Reorganization and the Distribution. The opinion assumed that the Corporate Reorganization and the Distribution was completed according to the terms of certain of the operative agreements and required regulatory filings, and relied on the facts as stated therein and in other ancillary agreements and documents. In addition, the opinion was based on certain representations as to factual matters from, and certain covenants by, us and the Trust. The opinion cannot be relied on if any of the assumptions, representations or covenants were incorrect, incomplete or inaccurate or were violated in any material respect. The opinion of counsel is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and no assurance can be given that contrary positions will not be taken by the IRS or a court. We have not sought and will not seek a ruling from the IRS regarding the federal income tax consequences of the Corporate Reorganization and the Distribution. If the Corporate Reorganization and the Distribution were to fail to qualify as a reorganization or for tax-free treatment either under Section 368(a)(1)(F) or any other provision of the Code, then U.S. Holders of Sub-shares would recognize gain or 10 loss, as applicable, equal to the difference between (a) the sum of the fair market value of the shares of TPL Corporation Common Stock received by such holder and (b) its adjusted tax basis in the Sub-shares surrendered in exchange therefor. Further, the Trust would recognize taxable gain as if it sold all of its assets, subject to its liabilities, at fair market value. The consequences of the Corporate Reorganization and the Distribution to any holder will depend on that holder’s particular situation. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We cannot be certain that an active trading market for our Common Stock will be sustained, and our stock price may fluctuate significantly. A public market for our Common Stock did not exist until the Corporate Reorganization was effected on January 11, 2021.  We cannot guarantee that the active trading market that has developed will be sustained for our Common Stock, nor can we predict the prices at which shares of our Common Stock may trade. Until the market has fully evaluated our business as a corporation, the prices at which shares of our Common Stock trade may fluctuate more significantly than might otherwise be typical, even with other market conditions, including general volatility, held constant. The increased volatility of our stock price following the Corporate Reorganization may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market price of our Common Stock may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations due to factors related to our business; • our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; • changes to the regulatory and legal environment under which we operate; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • the failure of securities analysts to cover, or positively cover, our Common Stock; • changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; • investor perception of our Company and our industry; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in commodities prices; and • domestic and worldwide economic conditions. There may be substantial changes in our stockholder base. Investors in the Trust may have held Sub-shares because of a decision to invest in an organization with the Trust’s governance profile or operating track record. Now that the Corporate Reorganization has occurred, the shares of our Common Stock held by those investors will represent an investment in a company with a different governance profile, in particular a board of directors at TPL Corporation subject to changes from year to year at annual elections of directors serving staggered three-year terms. More frequent changes in the leadership of the organization, particularly on the Board, could lead to changes in the operating policies of TPL Corporation over time. Such changes may not match some stockholders’ investment strategies, which could cause them to sell our Common Stock. These changes may also attract new investors who previously did not invest in the Trust because of its structure, governance profile or operating track record. As a result of such changes, our stock price may decline or experience volatility as our stockholder base changes. Additionally, new investors or leadership at TPL Corporation could advocate for business or corporate initiatives that would not be beneficial for all stockholders, such as an untimely sale of the business. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of the actions of activist or hostile stockholders. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of stockholder activism, which could cause us to incur significant expense, hinder execution of our business strategy, and impact the trading value of our securities. In the past, the Company has been the subject of shareholder activism, and we are subject to the risks associated with any ongoing or future such activism. 11 Stockholder activism, including potential proxy contests, requires significant time and attention by management and our Board, potentially interfering with our ability to execute our strategic plan. We may be required to incur significant legal fees and other expenses related to activist stockholder matters. While we welcome our stockholders’ constructive input, there can be no assurance that stockholder actions would not result in negative impacts to the Company. Any of these impacts could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results, and the market price of our Common Stock could be subject to significant fluctuation or otherwise be adversely affected by stockholder activism. If stockholders were to approve an amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation allowing the issuance of additional equity, holders of our Common Stock could experience dilution in the future. In the future, if stockholders were to approve an amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation allowing the issuance of additional equity, holders of our Common Stock could be diluted because of equity issuances for proposed acquisitions or capital market transactions or equity awards proposed to be granted to our directors, officers and employees subject to any required vote of holders of our Common Stock under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws. We may issue stock-based awards, including annual awards, new hire awards and periodic retention awards, as applicable, to our directors, officers and other employees under any employee benefits plans we have adopted or may adopt, using newly issued shares rather than treasury shares as is currently our practice. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more series of preferred stock having such designations, powers, preferences, privileges and relative, participating, optional and special rights, and qualifications, limitations and restrictions as the Board may generally determine in its sole discretion. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our Common Stock. For example, we could grant the holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of the members of the Board in all events or upon the happening of specified events, or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences that we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of our Common Stock. We may not continue the Trust’s historical practice of declaring cash dividends. We will evaluate whether to pay cash dividends on our Common Stock in the future and we cannot guarantee the timing, amount or payment of dividends, if any. The timing, declaration, amount of, and payment of any cash dividends to our stockholders is within the discretion of our Board and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of our operating subsidiaries, covenants associated with any debt service obligations or other contractual obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice, ability to access capital markets and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. Moreover, should our Board determine to pay any dividend in the future, there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay such dividends or the amount of such dividends. We may not continue the Trust’s historical practice of repurchasing outstanding equity of its holders. We will evaluate whether to repurchase our outstanding Common Stock in the future and we cannot guarantee the timing, amount or payment of share repurchases, if any. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company repurchased 14,791 outstanding shares of Common Stock which repurchased shares were held in treasury.  We expect that we will from time to time offer to repurchase a portion of our outstanding Common Stock. However, any repurchase will be within the discretion of our Board and will depend upon many factors, including market and business conditions, the trading price of our Common Stock, available cash and cash flow, capital requirements and the nature of other investment opportunities. State law and anti-takeover provisions could enable our Board to resist a takeover attempt by a third party and limit the power of our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain, and Delaware law contains, provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our Board rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others: (a) the ability of our remaining directors to fill vacancies on our Board (except in an instance where a director is removed by stockholders and the resulting vacancy is filled by stockholders); (b) the inability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; (c) rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; and (d) the right of our Board to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. 12 In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (“DGCL”), which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control that you may favor. Section 203 provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with persons that acquire, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation may not engage in a business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which that person or any of its affiliates becomes the holder of more than 15% of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock. We believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board and by providing our Board with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make the Company immune from takeovers; however, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board determines is not in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders. These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas as the sole and exclusive forums for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could discourage lawsuits against the Company and our directors and officers. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that unless the Company otherwise determines, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or, if such court does not have jurisdiction, the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware) or the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas (or, if such court does not have jurisdiction, any district court in Dallas County in the State of Texas) will be the sole and exclusive forums for any derivative action brought on our behalf, any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our current or former directors, officers, employees or stockholders, any action or proceeding asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers, employees or agents arising pursuant to, or seeking to enforce any right, obligation or remedy under any provision of the DGCL, the laws of the State of Texas, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws or any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers, employees or agents governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in each such case, subject to the applicable court having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also provides that unless our Board otherwise determines, the federal district courts of the United States will be the sole and exclusive forum for the resolution of any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). To the fullest extent permitted by law, this exclusive forum provision will apply to state and federal law claims, including claims under the federal securities laws, including the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, although our stockholders will not be deemed to have waived our compliance with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. The enforceability of similar exclusive forum provisions in other companies’ certificates of incorporation has been challenged in legal proceedings, and it is possible that, in connection with one or more actions or proceedings described above, a court could rule that one or more parts of the exclusive forum provision in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation is inapplicable or unenforceable. This exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of our stockholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such stockholders find favorable for disputes with the Company or our directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against the Company and our directors and officers. Alternatively, if a court were to find this exclusive forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings described above, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation (“MD&A”) is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Texas Pacific Land Corporation.  MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying Notes to Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions.  Actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, those factors presented in Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This section generally discusses the results of our operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. For a discussion of the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, please refer to Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. Overview TPL was originally organized in 1888 as a business trust to hold title to extensive tracts of land in numerous counties in West Texas which were previously the property of the Texas and Pacific Railway Company.  As discussed in Item 1. “Business — General — Corporate Reorganization,” on January 11, 2021, we completed our Corporate Reorganization from a business trust to a corporation changing our name from Texas Pacific Land Trust to Texas Pacific Land Corporation. For an overview of our business and discussion of our business segments, see Item 1. “Business — General.” Our business activity is generated from our surface and royalty interest ownership in West Texas, primarily in the Permian Basin.  Our revenues are derived from oil, gas and produced water royalties, sales of water and land, easements and commercial leases.  Due to the nature of our operations and concentration of our ownership in one geographic location, our revenue and net income are subject to substantial fluctuations from quarter to quarter and year to year.  In addition to fluctuations in response to changes in the market price for oil and gas, our financial results are also subject to decisions by the owners and operators of not only the oil and gas wells to which our oil and gas royalty interests relate, but also to other owners and operators in the Permian Basin as it relates to our other revenue streams, principally water sales, easements and other surface-related revenue. Market Conditions COVID-19 Pandemic and Global Oil Market Impact in 2021 The uncertainty caused by the global spread of COVID-19 commencing in 2020, among other factors, led to a significant reduction in global oil demand and prices.  These events generally led to production curtailments and capital investment reductions by the operators of the oil and gas wells to which the Company’s royalty interests relate.  This slowdown in well development has negatively affected the Company’s business and operations.  Production and activity curtailments were generally most pronounced in 2020 as many nations around the world implemented economic and social interventions in response to COVID-19. Development activity in the Permian Basin was likewise reduced, and our operations were commensurately negatively impacted. In 2021, oil market fundamentals improved as economic and social interventions subsided in some nations and as OPEC+ enacted and maintained oil supply cuts. With current oil, natural gas, and NGL prices higher than the comparable period in 2020, development activities in the Permian Basin have rebounded from the lows in 2020 and producer activity has increased, albeit at a pace still below pre-pandemic levels.  Development activity on our royalty surface acreage likewise significantly improved in 2021 compared to the prior year.  More recently, development activity has also been impacted by shortages in labor and certain equipment as well as escalating costs.  While labor and resource shortages and rising costs have not directly impacted us thus far, these shortages and rising costs could potentially impact our future operating activity.    Future production and development activity will continue to be influenced by changes in commodity prices and by the evolving economic and health impact of COVID-19.  However, COVID-19 continues to impact certain regions domestically and globally, and any additional containment measures, now or in the future, could impede a recovery.  Although our revenues are directly and indirectly impacted by changes in oil prices, we believe our royalty interests (which require no capital expenditures or operating expense burden from us for well development), strong balance sheet, and liquidity position will help us navigate through potential oil price volatility. In 2020, we implemented certain cost reduction measures to manage costs with an initial focus on negotiating price reductions and discounts with certain vendors and reducing our usage of independent contract service providers.  In 2021, we continued to identify additional cost reduction opportunities.  As part of our longer-term water business strategy, we have 17 invested in electrifying our water sourcing infrastructure.  The use of electricity instead of fuel-powered generators to source and transport water is anticipated to further reduce our dependence on fuel, equipment rentals, and repairs and maintenance.  Additionally, our investment in automation has allowed us to curtail our reliance on independent contract service providers to support our field operations. Our business model and disciplined approach to capital resource allocation have helped us maintain our strong financial position while navigating the uncertainty of the current environment.  Further, we continue to prioritize maintaining a safe and healthy work environment for our employees.  Our information technology infrastructure allowed our corporate employees to transition to a remote work environment starting in March 2020 and we were able to deploy additional safety and sanitation measures for our field employees.  As vaccination rates in the United States have risen, we have taken a phased-in approach to returning employees to the office and continue to monitor guidance provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention as new information becomes available.  We continue to provide safety and sanitation measures for all employees and maintain communication with employees regarding any concerns they may have during the transition. Permian Basin Activity The Permian Basin is one of the oldest and most well-known hydrocarbon-producing areas and currently accounts for a substantial portion of oil and gas production in the United States, covering approximately 86,000 square miles in 52 counties across southeastern New Mexico and western Texas.  All of our assets are located in West Texas. With our ownership concentration in the Permian Basin, our revenues are directly impacted by oil and gas pricing and drilling activity in the Permian Basin.  Below are metrics for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020: (1)    Commonly used definitions in the oil and gas industry provided in the table above are defined as follows:  WTI Cushing represents West Texas Intermediate.  Bbl represents one barrel of 42 U.S. gallons of oil.  Mmbtu represents one million British thermal units, a measurement used for natural gas.  DUCs represent drilled but uncompleted wells. (2)    Permian Basin specific information per Enverus analytics.  US weekly horizontal rig counts per Baker Hughes United States Rotary Rig Count for horizontal rigs.  Statistics for similar data are also available from other sources.  The comparability between these other sources and the sources used by the Company may differ. The metrics above demonstrate the shifts in activity in the Permian Basin for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020.  While oil and gas prices, which began declining in the first quarter of 2020 (prior to oil reaching record lows in the second quarter of 2020), have rebounded in 2021, development, drilling and completion and production activities broadly across the Permian have not returned to their pre-pandemic levels.  Operators continue to manage their capital allocations by deploying at a decreased pace of development while oil demand continues to recover.  As we are a significant landowner in the Permian Basin and not an oil and gas producer, our revenue is affected by the development decisions made by companies that operate in the areas where we own royalty interests and land.  Accordingly, these decisions made by others affect not only our production and produced water disposal volumes but also directly impact our surface-related income and water sales. 18 Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Our principal sources of liquidity are cash and cash flows generated from our operations.  Our primary liquidity and capital requirements are for capital expenditures related to our Water Services and Operations segment (the extent and timing of which are under our control), working capital and general corporate needs. We continuously review our liquidity and capital resources.  If market conditions were to change and our revenues were to decline significantly or operating costs were to increase significantly, our cash flows and liquidity could be reduced.  Should this occur, we could seek alternative sources of funding.  We have no debt or credit facilities, nor any off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2021. As of December 31, 2021, we had cash and cash equivalents of $428.2 million that we expect to utilize, along with cash flow from operations, to provide capital to support the growth of our business, to repurchase our Common Stock subject to market conditions, to pay dividends subject to the discretion of our Board and for general corporate purposes. For the year ended December 31, 2021, we repurchased $19.9 million of shares and paid $85.3 million in dividends to our stockholders. We believe that cash from operations, together with our cash and cash equivalents balances, will be sufficient to meet ongoing capital expenditures, working capital requirements and other cash needs for the foreseeable future. Cash Flows from Operating Activities For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, net cash provided by operating activities was $265.2 million and $207.0 million, respectively.  Our cash flow provided by operating activities is primarily from oil, gas and produced water royalties, easements and other surface-related income and water and land sales. Cash flow used in operations generally consists of operating expenses associated with our revenue streams,  general and administrative expenses and income taxes. The increase in cash flows provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period of 2020, was primarily related to increased prices and volumes of oil and gas production and was partially offset by increased working capital needs resulting from such activity. Cash Flows Used in Investing Activities For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, net cash used in investing activities was $15.0 million and $26.0 million, respectively.  Our cash flows used in investing activities are primarily related to acquisitions of land and royalty interests and capital expenditures related to our water services and operations segment. Acquisitions of land and royalty interests decreased approximately $20.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period 2020.  This decrease was partially offset by increased capital expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period of 2020. Cash Flows Used in Financing Activities For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, net cash used in financing activities was $104.9 million and $201.7 million, respectively.  Our cash flows used in financing primarily consist of activities which return capital to our shareholders such as dividends and repurchases of our Common Stock. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we paid total dividends of $85.3 million consisting of cumulative paid cash dividends of $11.00 per share and repurchased Common Stock for $19.9 million (including share repurchases not yet settled as of December 31, 2021).  During the year ended December 31, 2020, we paid total dividends of $201.7 million consisting of a regular cash dividend of $10.00 per Sub-share and special dividends aggregating $16.00 per Sub-share. 19 Results of Operations The following table shows our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019 (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2020 Consolidated Revenues and Net Income: Total revenues and net income increased $148.4 million and $93.9 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period for the year ended December 31, 2020. These increases were principally due to the $148.5 million increase in oil and gas royalty revenue over the same period. Individual revenue line items are discussed below under “Segment Results of Operations.” Consolidated Expenses: Salaries and related employee expenses .  Salaries and related employee expenses were $40.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to $32.2 million for the comparable period of 2020.  The increase in salaries and related employee expenses during 2021 as compared to the same period of 2020 is principally due to $6.7 million of severance costs and a $1.4 million increase in pension costs, partially offset by decreased usage of contract labor by our Water Services and Operations segment. 20 Water service-related expenses . Water service-related expenses decreased to $13.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 from $14.2 million for the same period of 2020.  This decrease in expenses was principally the result of a decrease in equipment rental and field logistical expenses.  While fuel expenses for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 were relatively constant, we began to realize fuel savings during the second half of 2021 as a result of our investment in electrifying our water sourcing infrastructure.  We expect these fuel savings to positively impact our expenses in future periods. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses increased $2.0 million to $11.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 from $9.8 million for the same period of 2020.  The increase in general and administrative expenses during the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period of 2020 was principally related to increased board of director fees resulting from our Corporate Reorganization in January 2021. Legal and professional fees .  Legal and professional fees decreased $3.5 million to $7.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 from $10.8 million for the comparable period of 2020.  Legal and professional fees for the year ended December 31, 2020 were higher principally due to legal expenses associated with the 2019 proxy contest and our Corporate Reorganization. Land sales expenses. There were no land sales expenses for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to $4.0 million for the comparable period of 2020.  Land sales expenses represent expenses related to land sales and include cost basis and closing costs associated with land sales.  Land sales expenses for the year ended December 31, 2020 include $3.9 million of cost basis related to 2020 land sales. Depreciation, depletion and amortization. Depreciation, depletion and amortization was $16.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to $14.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2020.  The increase in depreciation, depletion and amortization is principally related to our investment in water service-related assets placed in service in 2021 and  increased depletion related to our oil and gas royalty interests. Other income, net. Other income, net was $0.6 million and $2.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.  Other income, net for the year ended December 31, 2020, included a $1.2 million accrued insurance reimbursement related to legal fees incurred in 2019 associated with the proxy contest. Total income tax expense. Total income tax expense was $93.0 million and $43.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.  During the quarter ended December 31, 2021, the Company recorded an out of period tax adjustment of $19.4 million to current income tax expense and income taxes payable, $13.0 million of which related to historical annual periods and $6.4 million of which related to current year quarterly periods.  For further discussion, please see Note 8, “Income Taxes” in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Segment Results of Operations We operate our business in two reportable segments: Land and Resource Management and Water Services and Operations. We eliminate any inter-segment revenues and expenses upon consolidation. We evaluate the performance of our operating segments separately to monitor the different factors affecting financial results. The reportable segments presented are consistent with our reportable segments discussed in Note 12, “Business Segment Reporting” in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We monitor our reporting segments based upon revenue and net income calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). Our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 have benefited from a rebound in oil and gas activity in the Permian Basin and commodity prices from depressed levels in 2020. While our oil and gas royalty revenues have benefited from increased royalty production and higher commodity prices during this time period, our water sales and surface-related income continue to be impacted by the reduced overall development pace compared to pre-pandemic levels. 21 Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2020 The following is an analysis of our operating results for the comparable periods by reportable segment (in thousands): Land and Resource Management Land and Resource Management segment revenues increased $125.2 million, or 64.2%, to $320.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared with revenues of $195.1 million for the comparable period of 2020.  The increase in Land and Resource Management segment revenues is due to increases in oil and gas royalties, which more than doubled for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the comparable period of 2020. Oil and gas royalties . Oil and gas royalty revenue was $286.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to $137.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, an increase of 107.7%.  The table below provides financial and operational data by royalty stream for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020: 22 (1)    Commonly used definitions in the oil and gas industry not previously defined:  Boe represents barrels of oil equivalent.  MBbls represents one thousand barrels of crude oil, condensate or NGLs.  Mcf represents one thousand cubic feet of natural gas.  MMcf represents one million cubic feet of natural gas.  MBoe represents one thousand Boe.  MBoe/d represents one thousand Boe per day. Our share of crude oil, natural gas and NGL production volumes was 18.6 thousand Boe per day for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to 16.2 thousand Boe per day for the same period of 2020.  The average realized prices were $66.62 per barrel of oil, $3.67 per Mcf of natural gas, and $31.56 per barrel of NGL, for a total equivalent price of $44.14 per Boe for the year ended December 31, 2021, an increase of $19.85 per Boe compared to the total equivalent price of $24.29 per Boe for the same period of 2020. Easements and other surface-related income. Easements and other surface-related income was $32.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, a decrease of 16.7% compared to $39.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2020.  Easements and other surface-related income includes pipeline, power line and utility easements, commercial leases and seismic and temporary permits.  The decrease in easements and other surface-related income is principally related to decreases of $9.4 million in pipeline easement income and $1.3 million in power line and utility easements for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period of 2020. These decreases were partially offset by a $4.1 million increase in commercial lease revenue for the year ended December 31, 2021. Easements and other surface-related income is dependent on development decisions made by companies that operate in the areas where we own land and is, therefore, unpredictable and may vary significantly from period to period.  See “Market Conditions” above for additional discussion of development activity in the Permian Basin during the year ended December 31, 2021. Land sales and other operating revenue .  Land sales and other operating revenue includes revenue generated from land sales and grazing leases.  Land sales were $0.7 million and $17.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.  For the year ended December 31, 2021, we sold 30 acres of land for an aggregate sales price of $0.7 million or approximately $25,000 per acre.  For the year ended December 31, 2020, we sold 22,160 acres of land for an aggregate sales price of approximately $16.0 million, or approximately $721 per acre.  Additionally, we recognized land sales revenue of $1.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 related to land exchanges where we had no cost basis in the land conveyed. Net income . Net income for the Land and Resource Management segment was $208.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to $128.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2020.  Expenses, including income tax expense, for the Land and Resource Management segment were $111.5 million and $67.2 million for the years ended December 23 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.  The increase in expenses during 2021 is principally related to a $46.2 million increase in income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period of 2020.  Expenses are discussed further above under “Results of Operations.” Water Services and Operations Water Services and Operations segment revenues increased 21.5%, to $130.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared with revenues of $107.4 million for the comparable period of 2020.  The increase in Water Services and Operations segment revenues is due to increases in water sales and produced water royalty revenue.  As discussed in “Market Conditions” above, our segment revenues are directly influenced by development decisions made by our customers and the overall activity level in the Permian Basin.  Accordingly, our segment revenues and sales volumes, as further discussed below, will fluctuate from period to period based upon those decisions and activity levels. Water sales .  Water sales and royalty revenue was $67.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, an increase of $12.9 million or 23.5%, compared with the year ended December 31, 2020 when water sales and royalty revenue was $54.9 million.  The increase in water sales is principally due to a 14.7% increase in the number of sourced and treated barrels sold. Additionally, water sales for the year ended December 31, 2020, was impacted by a approximately $7.0 million deferral of water sales revenue related to take or pay contracts. Produced water royalties. Produced water royalties are royalties received from the transportation or disposal of produced water on our land.  We do not operate any saltwater disposal wells.  Produced water royalties were $58.1 million  for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to $50.6 million for the same period in 2020.  This increase is principally due to increased produced water volumes for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period of 2020. Easements and other surface-related income .  Easements and other surface-related income was $4.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, an increase of $2.8 million compared to $1.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2020.  The increase in easements and other surface-related income relates to an increase in temporary permits for sourced water lines for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020. Net income .  Net income for the Water Services and Operations segment was $61.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to $48.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2020.  As discussed above, revenues for the Water Services and Operations segment increased 21.5% for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period of 2020.  Expenses, including income tax expense, for the Water Services and Operations segment were $69.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to $59.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2020.  The overall increase in segment expenses during 2021 is principally related to increased income tax expense as a result of increased segment operating income during the same time period.   The remaining increase in segment expenses is principally a result of an increase in the segment’s share of  all corporate overhead expenses impacted by the Corporate Reorganization in 2021.  Expenses are discussed further above under “Results of Operations.” Non-GAAP Performance Measures In addition to amounts presented in accordance with GAAP, we also present certain supplemental non-GAAP measurements.  These measurements are not to be considered more relevant or accurate than the measurements presented in accordance with GAAP.  In compliance with requirements of the SEC, our non-GAAP measurements are reconciled to net income, the most directly comparable GAAP performance measure.  For all non-GAAP measurements, neither the SEC nor any other regulatory body has passed judgment on these non-GAAP measurements. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measurement of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, depletion and amortization.  Its purpose is to highlight earnings without finance, taxes, and depreciation, depletion and amortization expense, and its use is limited to specialized analysis.  We calculate Adjusted EBITDA as EBITDA excluding the impact of certain non-cash, non-recurring and/or unusual, non-operating items, including, but not limited to:  proxy and conversion costs related to our Corporate Reorganization, severance costs, and land sales deemed significant.  We have presented EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA because we believe that both are useful supplements to net income in analyzing operating performance. 24 The following table presents a reconciliation of net income to EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA for the years ended December 31, 2021,  2020, and 2019 (in thousands): Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. It is our opinion that we fully disclose our significant accounting policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Consistent with our disclosure policies, we include the following discussion related to what we believe to be our most critical accounting policies that require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgment. Accrual of Oil and Gas Royalties The Company accrues oil and gas royalties.  An accrual is necessary due to the time lag between the production of oil and gas and generation of the actual payment by operators.  The oil and gas royalty accrual is based upon historical production, estimates of the timing of future payments and recent market prices for oil and gas. New Accounting Pronouncements For further information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements, see Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”