********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should consider carefully all of the information set forth or incorporated by reference in this document and, in particular, the following risk factors associated with the business of the Company and forward-looking information in this document. Please also see “Special Note on Forward-Looking Information” at the beginning of this report. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also have an adverse effect on us. If any of the risks below actually occur, our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition could suffer. Risks Related to Macroeconomic Conditions Economic conditions, such as an economic recession, downturn, periods of inflation or uncertainty, could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and consumer purchases of discretionary items. Our results can be impacted by a number of macroeconomic factors, including but not limited to: consumer confidence and spending levels, tax rates, levels of unemployment, consumer credit availability, pandemics, natural disasters, raw material costs, fuel and energy costs, bank failures, market volatility, global factory production, supply chain operations, commercial real estate market conditions, credit market conditions and the level of customer traffic in malls, shopping centers and online. Many of our products can be considered discretionary items for consumers. Demand for our products, and consumer spending in the handbag, footwear and accessories categories generally is or may be significantly impacted by trends in consumer confidence, general economic and business conditions, high levels of unemployment, periods of inflation, health pandemics, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, the availability of consumer credit and taxation. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, such as the Company's products, tend to decline during recessionary periods or periods of sustained high unemployment when disposable income is lower. Unfavorable economic conditions may also reduce consumers’ willingness and ability to travel to major cities and vacation destinations in which our stores are located. Our sensitivity to economic cycles and any related fluctuation in consumer demand may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Risks Related to our Business and our Industry We face risks associated with operating in international markets. We operate on a global basis, with approximately 40.8% of our net sales coming from operations outside of United States for fiscal year 2024. While geographic diversity helps to reduce the Company’s exposure to risks in any one country, we are subject to risks associated with international operations, including, but not limited to: • political or economic instability or changing macroeconomic conditions in our major markets, including the potential impact of (1) new policies that may be implemented by the U.S. or other jurisdictions, particularly with respect to tax and trade policies, (2) the outcome of several elections worldwide, inclusive of the 2024 U.S. Presidential, congressional, and state elections and policy shifts resulting from those elections, and (3) sanctions and related activities by the United States, European Union (“E.U.”) and others; • public health crises, such as pandemics and epidemic diseases; • changes to the U.S.'s participation in, withdrawal out of, renegotiation of certain international trade agreements or other major trade related issues, including the non-renewal of expiring favorable tariffs granted to developing countries, tariff quotas and retaliatory tariffs, trade sanctions, new or onerous trade restrictions, embargoes and other stringent government controls; • changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies, which may adversely affect the retail prices of our products, result in decreased international consumer demand, or increase our supply costs in those markets, with a corresponding negative impact on our gross margin rates; • compliance with laws relating to foreign operations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"), the U.K. Bribery Act and other global anti-corruption laws, which in general concern the bribery of foreign public officials and other regulations and requirements; • changes in tourist shopping patterns and consumer behavior, particularly that of the Chinese consumer; • geopolitical instability (such as the uncertainty in U.S.-China relations); • natural and other disasters; • political, civil and social unrest; and 14 • changes in legal and regulatory requirements, including, but not limited to safeguard measures, anti-dumping duties, cargo restrictions to prevent terrorism, restrictions on the transfer of currency, climate change and other environmental legislation, product safety regulations or other charges or restrictions. Our business is subject to the risks inherent in global sourcing activities. As a Company engaged in sourcing on a global scale, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including, but not limited to: • continued disruptions or delays in shipments whether due to port congestion, logistics carrier disruption (including as a result of labor disputes), militant attacks on commercial shipping vessels in the Red Sea, other shipping capacity constraints or other factors, which has and may continue to result in significantly increased inbound freight costs and increased in-transit times; • loss or disruption of key manufacturing or fulfillment sites or extended closure of such sites due to unexpected factors; • imposition of additional duties, taxes and other charges or restrictions on imports or exports; • unavailability, or significant fluctuations in the cost, of raw materials; • compliance by us and our independent manufacturers and suppliers with labor laws and other foreign governmental regulations; • increases in the cost of labor, fuel (including volatility in the price of oil), travel and transportation; • compliance with our Global Business Integrity Program; • compliance by our independent manufacturers and suppliers with our Supplier Code of Conduct, social auditing procedures and requirements and other applicable compliance policies; • compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including U.S. laws regarding the identification and reporting on the use of “conflict minerals” sourced from the Democratic Republic of the Congo in the Company’s products, other laws and regulations regarding the sourcing of materials in the Company’s products, the FCPA, U.K. Bribery Act and other global anti-corruption laws, as applicable, and other U.S. and international regulations and requirements; • regulation or prohibition of the transaction of business with specific individuals or entities and their affiliates or goods manufactured in certain regions by any government or regulatory authority in the jurisdictions where we conduct business, such as the listing of a person or entity as a Specially Designated National or Blocked Person by the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control and Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act (“UFLPA”); • inability to engage new independent manufacturers that meet the Company’s cost-effective sourcing model; • product quality issues; • political unrest, protests and other civil disruption; • public health crises, such as pandemic and epidemic diseases, and other unforeseen outbreaks; • natural disasters or other extreme weather events, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise; and • acts of war or terrorism and other external factors over which we have no control. We are subject to labor laws governing relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and citizenship requirements. Compliance with these laws may lead to increased costs and operational complexity and may increase our exposure to governmental investigations or litigation. In addition, we require our independent manufacturers and suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, as well as our Supplier Code of Conduct and other compliance policies under our Global Business Integrity Program; however, we do not control these manufacturers or suppliers or their labor, environmental or other business practices. Copies of our Global Business Integrity Program documents, including our Global Operating Principles, Anti-Corruption Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct are available through our website, www.tapestry.com. The violation of labor, environmental or other laws by an independent manufacturer or supplier, or divergence of an independent manufacturer’s or supplier’s labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical or appropriate in the U.S., could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of our products, harm our trademarks or damage our reputation. In addition, if there is negative publicity regarding the production methods of any of our suppliers or manufacturers, even if unfounded or not specific to our supply chain, our reputation and sales could be adversely affected, we could be subject to legal liability, or could cause us to contract with alternative suppliers or manufacturing sources. The occurrence of any of these events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Public health crises, such as the Covid-19 pandemic, may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Widespread public health crises, such as the Covid-19 pandemic, have had, and could in the future have, a negative impact on our operations, cash flow and liquidity. Potential risks to our business include but are not limited to: (i) disruption of our supply chain; (ii) loss or disruption of key manufacturing or fulfillment sites; (iii) closures, operating restrictions and capacity restrictions at our stores and our ability to negotiate existing lease agreements; (iv) changes in consumer shopping behavior, including reduced discretionary spending; (v) costs associated with adhering to regulations and protecting the health and safety of our employees and customers, (vi) excess inventory leading to increased promotional activity, (vii) heightened competition for retail and fulfillment center employees, (viii) our ability access capital markets and to make payments on and refinance our debt obligations; and (ix) our ability to pay dividends or conduct stock repurchases. A decline in the volume of traffic to our stores could have a negative impact on our net sales. The success of our retail stores located within malls and shopping centers may be impacted by (i) changes in consumer shopping behavior and store closures; (ii) reduced travel resulting from economic conditions (including a recession or inflationary pressures); (iii) the location of the store within the mall or shopping center; (iv) surrounding tenants or vacancies; (v) increased competition in areas where malls or shopping centers are located; (vi) the amount spent on advertising and promotion to attract consumers to the mall; and (vii) a shift towards online shopping resulting in a decrease in store traffic. Declines in consumer traffic could have a negative impact on our net sales and could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, declines in traffic could result in store impairment charges if expected future cash flows of the related asset group do not exceed the carrying value. The growth of our business depends on the successful execution of our growth strategies, including our global omni-channel expansion efforts and our ability to execute our digital and e-commerce priorities. Our growth depends on the continued success of existing products, as well as the successful design, introduction of new products and maintaining an appropriate rationalization of our assortment. Our ability to create new products and to sustain existing products is affected by whether we can successfully anticipate and respond to consumer preferences and fashion trends. See “ The success of our business depends on our ability to retain the value of our brands and to respond to changing fashion and retail trends in a timely manner.” The failure to develop and launch successful new products or to rationalize our assortment appropriately could hinder the growth of our business. Also, any delay in the development or launch of a new product could result in our company not being the first to bring product to market, which could compromise our competitive position. Our success and growth also depends on the continued development of our omni-channel presence for each of our brands globally, leaning into global digital opportunities for each brand, along with continued bricks and mortar expansion in select international regions. With respect to international expansion, our brands may not be well-established or widely sold in some of these markets, and we may have limited experience operating directly or working with our partners there. In addition, some of these markets, either through bricks and mortar stores or digital channels, have different operational characteristics, including but not limited to employment and labor, privacy, transportation, logistics, real estate, environmental regulations and local reporting or legal requirements. We aim to provide a seamless omni-channel experience to our customers regardless of whether they are shopping in stores or engaging with our brands through digital technology, such as computers, mobile phones, tablets or other devices. This requires investment in new technologies and reliance on third-party digital partners, over which we may have limited control. Additionally, our digital business is subject to numerous risks that could adversely impact our results, including (i) a diversion of sales from our brand stores or wholesale customers, (ii) difficulty in recreating the in-store experience through digital channels, (iii) liability for online content, (iv) changing dynamics within the digital marketing environment and our ability to effectively market to consumers, (v) intense competition from online retailers, and (vi) the ability to provide timely delivery of e-commerce purchases, which is dependent on the capacity and operations of our owned and third-party operated fulfillment facilities. See “ Our business is subject to the risks inherent in global sourcing activities” for additional risks related to our fulfillment networks. If we are unable to effectively execute our e-commerce and digital strategies and provide reliable experiences for our customers across all business channels, our reputation and ability to compete with other brands could suffer, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, consumer demand and behavior, as well as tastes and purchasing trends may differ in these countries, and as a result, sales of our product may not be successful, or the margins on those sales may not be in line with those we currently anticipate. Further, expanding in certain markets may have upfront investment costs that may not be accompanied by sufficient revenues to achieve typical or expected operational and financial performance and therefore may be dilutive to our brands in the short-term. We may also have to compete for talent in international regions as we expand our omni-channel presence. 16 Consequently, if our global omni-channel expansion plans are unsuccessful, or we are unable to retain and/or attract key personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially adversely affected. The successful implementation of the Company’s 2025 growth strategy, future speed , is key to the long-term success of our business. The Company introduced its 2025 growth strategy, future speed, in the first quarter of fiscal 2023, which is designed to amplify and extend the competitive advantages of the brands, with a focus on four strategic priorities: (i) Building Lasting Customer Relationships; (ii) Fueling Fashion Innovation & Product Excellence; (iii) Delivering Compelling Omni-Channel Experiences; and (iv) Powering Global Growth. The Company believes that its intentional focus positions Tapestry to drive sustainable, profitable growth to create value for its stakeholders over time. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to sustain such efforts in accordance with our plans, that such efforts will result in the intended or otherwise desirable outcomes or that such efforts, even if successfully sustained, will be effective in achieving long-term growth or increased profitability. Refer to Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for further information regarding future speed . If our incorporation of the initiatives under future speed falls short, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially adversely affected. Significant competition in our industry could adversely affect our business. We face intense competition from many other brands in the product lines and markets that we participate, which include the Company's wholesale customers. Competition is based on a number of factors, including, without limitation, the following: • our competitors may develop new products or product categories that are more popular with our customers; • anticipating and responding in a timely fashion to changing consumer demands and shopping preferences, including the ever-increasing shift to digital brand engagement, social media communications, and online and cross-channel shopping; • maintaining strong brand recognition, loyalty, and a reputation for quality, including through digital brand engagement and online and social media presence; • recruiting and retaining key talent; • developing and producing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors, and styles that appeal to a diverse group of consumers; • competitively pricing our products and creating an acceptable value proposition for consumers, including price increases to mitigate inflationary pressures while simultaneously balancing the risk of lower consumer demand in response to any such price increases; • providing strong and effective marketing support in several diverse demographic markets, including through digital and social media platforms in order to stay better connected to consumers; • providing attractive, reliable, secure, and user-friendly digital commerce sites; • sourcing sustainable raw materials at cost-effective prices; • ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with third-party suppliers and retailers; • protecting our trademarks and design patents; • adapting to changes in technology, including the successful utilization of data analytics, artificial intelligence, and machine learning; and • the ability to withstand prolonged periods of adverse economic conditions or business disruptions. A failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing consumer preferences and technology and product trends could adversely affect our growth and profitability. The success of our business depends on our ability to retain the value of our brands and to respond to changing fashion and retail trends in a timely manner. Each of our brands are unique and independent, while sharing a commitment to innovation and authenticity defined by distinctive products and differentiated customer experiences across business channels and geographies. Any misstep in product quality or design, executive leadership, customer service, marketing, unfavorable publicity or excessive product discounting could negatively affect the image of our brands with our customers. Furthermore, the product lines we have historically marketed and those that we plan to market in the future are becoming increasingly subject to rapidly changing fashion trends 17 and consumer preferences, including the increasing shift to digital brand engagement and social media communication. If we do not anticipate and respond promptly to changing customer preferences and fashion trends in the design, production, and styling of our products, as well as create compelling marketing campaigns that appeal to our customers, our sales and results of operations may be negatively impacted. The shift towards digital engagement has become increasingly important, with increased use of social media platforms by our brand representatives, influencers and our employees. Actions taken by our partners on social media that do not show our brands in a manner consistent with our desired image or that are damaging to such partner’s reputation, whether or not through our brand social media platforms, could harm our brand reputation and materially impact our business. Our success also depends in part on our and our executive leadership team's ability to execute on our plans and strategies. Even if our products, marketing campaigns and retail environments do meet changing customer preferences and/or stay ahead of changing fashion trends, our brand image could become tarnished or undesirable in the minds of our customers or target markets, which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our success depends, in part, on attracting, developing and retaining qualified employees, including key personnel. Our business and future success depends heavily on attracting, developing and retaining qualified employees, including our senior management team. Competition in our industry to attract and retain these employees is intense and is influenced by our ability to offer competitive compensation and benefits, employee morale, our reputation, recruitment by other employers, perceived internal opportunities, non-competition and non-solicitation agreements and macro unemployment rates. We depend on the guidance of our senior management team and other key employees who have significant experience and expertise in our industry and our operations. There can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or that we will be able to identify and attract suitable successors for these individuals. The loss of one or more of our key personnel or the direct or indirect consequences of results thereof, or any negative public perception with respect to these individuals or the loss of these individuals, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We do not maintain key-person or similar life insurance policies on any of senior management team or other key personnel. We must also attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified retail and fulfillment center employees. Historically, competition for talent in these positions has been intense and turnover is generally high. If we are unable to attract and retain such employees with the necessary skills and experience, we may not achieve our objectives and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Additionally, changes to our office environments, the adoption of new work models, and our requirements and/or expectations about when or how often certain employees work on-site or remotely may not meet the expectations of our employees. As businesses increasingly operate remotely, traditional geographic competition for talent may change in ways that we cannot presently predict. If our employment proposition is not perceived as favorable compared to other companies, it could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain our employees. In order to consummate the Capri Acquisition (as defined below), we and Capri must obtain certain regulatory approvals and satisfy closing conditions, and if such approvals are not granted or are granted untimely and/or with conditions, and if closing conditions are not satisfied, consummation of the Capri Acquisition may be jeopardized or the anticipated benefits of the Capri Acquisition may not be realized. On August 10, 2023, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement"), by and among us, Capri and Sunrise Merger Sub, Inc. ("Merger Sub"), pursuant to which we agreed to acquire any and all of Capri’s ordinary shares (other than (a) Capri’s ordinary shares that are issued and outstanding immediately prior to the consummation of the acquisition that are owned or held in treasury by us or by Capri or any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries and (b) Capri’s ordinary shares that are issued and outstanding immediately prior to the consummation of the acquisition that are held by holders who have properly exercised dissenters’ rights in accordance with, and who have complied with, Section 179 of the BVI Business Companies Act, 2004 (as amended) of the British Virgin Islands) in cash at a purchase price of $57.00 per share, without interest, subject to any required tax (the "Capri Acquisition"). The consummation of the Capri Acquisition remains subject to the receipt of certain regulatory approvals and the satisfaction of certain closing conditions. Subject to limited exceptions, we or Capri may terminate the Merger Agreement if the Capri Acquisition is not consummated on or before August 10, 2024, subject to two extensions of up to three months each in certain circumstances, including to obtain required regulatory approvals. On April 22, 2024, the Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") filed a preliminary injunction action against Tapestry and Capri in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York seeking to enjoin the consummation of the Capri Acquisition. The FTC’s action alleges that the Capri Acquisition, if consummated, would violate Section 7 of the Clayton Act and that the Merger Agreement and the Capri Acquisition constitute unfair methods of competition in violation of Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act and should be enjoined. 18 There can be no assurance as to the outcome of litigation with the FTC or that we will receive regulatory approval from the FTC on a timely basis or at all, and there can be no assurance that if regulatory clearance is obtained, it will not be subject to the compliance of certain conditions or impose limitations, obligations or restrictions that could have the direct or indirect effect of delaying or preventing the completion of the Capri Acquisition, imposing additional material costs on or materially limiting our revenues following the Capri Acquisition or otherwise reducing the anticipated benefits of the Capri Acquisition, or resulting in the abandonment of the Capri Acquisition. If the Capri Acquisition is not completed on a timely basis or at all, our ongoing business may be adversely affected as follows: • we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets, including investors and rating agencies, and the price of our common stock could decline; • we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs, expenses and fees, in connection with the Capri Acquisition and the transactions contemplated by the Capri Acquisition, for which we may receive little or no benefit if the Capri Acquisition is not completed, including in connection with the issuance and mandatory redemption of $4.50 billion of Capri Acquisition USD Senior Notes and €1.50 billion of Capri Acquisition EUR Senior Notes (both as defined below) at 101% of par value if the Capri Acquisition is not completed by February 10, 2025 (or such later date mutually agreed between us and Capri); • investor and consumer confidence in our business could decline, relationships with vendors, service providers, investors and other third parties may be adversely impacted, and we may be unable to retain key personnel; • we may be subject to litigation, which could result in significant costs and expenses; • management’s focus may be diverted from day-to-day business operations and pursuing other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us; and • the anticipated benefits of the Capri Acquisition could be delayed or reduced. Mergers, acquisitions and other strategic investments may not be successful in achieving intended benefits, cost savings and synergies and may disrupt current operations. One component of our historical growth strategy has been acquisitions, and, consistent with our longer-term capital allocation priorities, our management team expects to maintain M&A flexibility and may from time to time evaluate and consider acquisitions or other strategic investments. These involve various inherent risks and as a result, the expected benefits, cost savings and synergies may not be realized. The integration process of any newly acquired company, such as our proposed Capri Acquisition, may be complex, costly and time-consuming. The potential difficulties of integrating the operations of an acquired business and realizing our expectations for an acquisition, including the benefits that may be realized, include, among other things: • failure of the business to perform as planned following the acquisition or achieve anticipated revenue, cash flow or profitability targets; • delays, unexpected costs or difficulties in completing the acquisition or integration of acquired companies or assets, including as a result of regulatory challenges; • higher than expected costs, lower than expected cost savings or synergies and/or a need to allocate resources to manage unexpected operating difficulties; • difficulties assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired companies into our operations; • diversion of the attention and resources of management or other disruptions to current operations; • the impact on our or an acquired business’ internal controls and compliance with the requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; • changes in applicable laws and regulations or the application of new laws and regulations; • changes in the combined business due to potential divestitures or other requirements imposed by antitrust regulators; • failures or delays in receiving the necessary approvals by the relevant regulators and authorities; • retaining key customers, suppliers and employees; • retaining and obtaining required regulatory approvals, licenses and permits; • operating risks inherent in the acquired business and our business; 19 • lower than anticipated demand for product offerings by us or our licensees; • assumption of liabilities not identified in due diligence; and • other unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. Our failure to successfully complete the integration of any acquired business, including as a result of regulatory challenges, and any adverse consequences associated with future acquisition activities, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Even if the integration of any acquired business is successfully completed, the full expected benefits and synergies of the acquisition may not be realized. Additional unanticipated costs, which could be material, may also be incurred in the integration of our business and the acquired business. Additionally, the full benefits of an acquisition may not be realized if the combined business does not perform as expected or demand for the combined company’s services does not meet our expectations. Completed acquisitions may result in additional goodwill and/or an increase in other intangible assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We are required annually, or as facts and circumstances exist, to assess goodwill and other intangible assets to determine if impairment has occurred. If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill or other intangible assets and the implied fair value of the goodwill or the fair value of other intangible assets in the period the determination is made. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any potential future impairment of assets. Should the value of goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be materially impacted if our fulfillment centers face significant interruptions and operations. We are dependent on a limited number of fulfillment centers. Our ability to meet the needs of our customers and our retail stores and e-commerce sites depends on the proper operation of these centers. If any of these centers were to shut down or otherwise become inoperable or inaccessible for any reason, including as a result of accidents, economic and weather conditions, natural disasters, pandemic diseases, labor shortages and other unforeseen events and circumstances, we could suffer a substantial loss of inventory and/or disruptions of deliveries to our retail and wholesale customers. Depending on the duration of these closures, our results may be materially impacted. While we have business continuity and contingency plans for our sourcing and fulfillment center sites, significant disruption of manufacturing or fulfillment for any of the above reasons could interrupt product supply, result in a substantial loss of inventory, increase our costs, disrupt deliveries to our customers and our retail stores, and, if not remedied in a timely manner, could have a material adverse impact on our business. Because our fulfillment centers include automated and computer-controlled equipment, they are susceptible to risks including power interruptions, system failures, software viruses, configuration errors and security breaches. In North America we maintain fulfillment centers in Florida, Ohio and Nevada, operated by Tapestry. Our multi-brand Nevada fulfillment center began operations in May 2023. Globally we utilize fulfillment centers in mainland China, the Netherlands, the U.K. and Spain, owned and operated by third parties, allowing us to better manage the logistics in these regions while reducing costs. We also utilize local fulfillment centers, through third-parties, in Japan, parts of Greater China, South Korea, Singapore, Malaysia, Spain, the U.K., Canada, Australia, and Mexico. The warehousing of the Company’s merchandise, store replenishment and processing direct-to-customer orders is handled by these centers and a prolonged disruption in any center’s operation could materially adversely affect our business and operations. In addition, if our fulfillment centers are not sized to meet the optimal capacity for our products or are not adequately staffed, utilized or operated, our profitability may be negatively impacted. Our business may be subject to increased costs due to excess inventories and a decline in profitability as a result of increasing pressure on margins if we misjudge the demand for our products. Our industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition and a highly promotional environment, fragmentation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products, and changes in consumer spending patterns. If we misjudge the market for our products or demand for our products are impacted by other factors, such as inflationary pressures, political instability or other macroeconomic events, we may be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for other products. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, forced to rely on donation, markdowns, promotional sales or other write-offs, to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory, which may negatively impact our gross margin, overall profitability and efficacy of our brands. Increases in our costs, such as raw materials, labor or freight could negatively impact our gross margin. Our costs for raw materials are affected by, among other things, weather, customer demand, speculation on the commodities market, the relative valuations and fluctuations of the currencies of producer versus customer countries and other factors that are generally unpredictable and beyond our control. Any of these factors may be exacerbated by global climate change. In addition, the remaining impacts of the pandemic, political instability, trade relations, sanctions, price inflationary pressure, or other 20 geopolitical or economic conditions could cause raw material costs to increase and have an adverse effect on our future margins. Labor costs at many of our manufacturers have been increasing significantly and, as the middle class in developing countries continues to grow, it is unlikely that such cost pressure will abate. Furthermore, the cost of transportation has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly if oil prices continue to rise. We may not be able to offset such increases in raw materials, labor or transportation costs through pricing measures or other means. As we outsource functions, we will become more dependent on the third parties performing these functions. As part of our long-term strategy, we look for opportunities to cost effectively enhance capability of business services. While we believe we conduct appropriate due diligence before entering into agreements with these third parties, the failure of any of these third parties to provide the expected services, provide them on a timely basis or to provide them at the prices we expect could disrupt or harm our business. We also cannot guarantee that these third parties will not experience a personal data or security breach in the future, which could have a material impact on our operations. Any significant interruption in the operations of these service providers, including as a result of changes in social, political, and economic conditions, including those resulting from military conflicts or other hostilities, that could result in the disruption of trade from the countries in which our manufacturers or suppliers are located, over which we have no control, could also have an adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, we may be unable to provide these services or implement substitute arrangements on a timely and cost-effective basis on terms favorable to us. Our wholesale business could suffer as a result of consolidations, liquidations, restructurings and other ownership changes in the wholesale industry. Our wholesale business comprised approximately 12% of total net sales for fiscal 2024. The retail industry, including wholesale customers, has experienced financial difficulty leading to consolidations, reorganizations, restructuring, bankruptcies and ownership changes. This may continue and could further decrease the number of, or concentrate the ownership of, wholesale stores that carry our or our licensees’ products. Furthermore, a decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores or any other significant customer, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease or eliminate the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing partners could result in an adverse effect on the sales and profitability within this business channel. Additionally, certain of our wholesale customers, particularly those located in the U.S., have in the past been highly promotional and have marked down their merchandise and may do so again in the future, which could impact our brands or could affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our operating results are subject to seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of the Company's common stock. The Company's results are typically affected by seasonal trends. We have historically realized, and expect to continue to realize, higher sales and operating income in the second quarter of our fiscal year. Business underperformance in the Company's second fiscal quarter would have a material adverse effect on its full year operating results and result in higher inventories. In addition, fluctuations in net sales, operating income and operating cash flows of the Company in any fiscal quarter may be affected by the timing of wholesale shipments and other events affecting retail sales, including adverse weather conditions or other macroeconomic events. We rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our licenses and the failure to maintain such partners could harm our business. Our brands currently have multi-year agreements with licensing partners for certain products. In the future, we may enter into additional licensing arrangements. The risks associated with our own products also apply to our licensed products, as do unique risks stemming from problems that our licensing partners may experience, including risks associated with each licensing partner’s ability to obtain capital, manage its labor relations, maintain relationships with its suppliers, manage its credit and bankruptcy risks, and maintain customer relationships. While we maintain significant control over the products produced for us by our licensing partners, any of the foregoing risks, or the inability of any of our licensing partners to execute on the expected design and quality of the licensed products or otherwise exercise operational and financial control over its business, may result in loss of revenue and competitive harm to our operations in the licensed product categories. Further, while we believe that we could replace our existing licensing partners if required, any delay in doing so could adversely affect our revenues and harm our business. We are subject to risks associated with leasing retail space subject to non-cancelable leases. We may be unable to renew leases at the end of their terms. If we close a leased retail space, we remain obligated under the applicable lease. We do not own any of our retail store locations. The majority of our stores are under non-cancelable, multi-year leases, often with renewal options. We believe that the majority of the leases we enter into in the future will likely be non-cancelable. Generally, our leases are “net” leases, which require us to pay our proportionate share of the cost of insurance, taxes, 21 maintenance and utilities. We generally cannot cancel these leases at our option. In certain cases, as we have done in the past, we may determine that it is no longer economical to operate a retail store subject to a lease or we may seek to generally downsize, consolidate, reposition, relocate or close some of our real estate locations. In such cases, we may be required to negotiate a lease exit with the applicable landlord or remain obligated under the applicable lease for, among other things, payment of the base rent for the balance of the lease term. In some instances, we may be unable to close an underperforming retail store due to continuous operation clauses in our lease agreements. In addition, as each of our leases expire, we may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close retail stores in desirable locations. Our inability to secure desirable retail space or favorable lease terms could impact our ability to grow. Likewise, our obligation to continue making lease payments in respect of leases for closed retail spaces could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, due to the uncertain economic environment, it may be difficult to determine the fair market value of real estate properties when we are deciding whether to enter into leases or renew expiring leases. This may impact our ability to manage the profitability of our store locations, or cause impairments of our lease right of use assets if market values decline, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Information Security and Technology Computer system disruption and cyber security threats, including a personal data or security breach, could damage our relationships with our customers, harm our reputation, expose us to litigation and adversely affect our business. We depend on digital technologies for the successful operation of our business, including corporate email communications to and from employees, customers, stores and vendors, the design, manufacture and distribution of our finished goods, digital and local marketing and clienteling efforts, data analytics, collection, use and retention of customer data, employee, vendor and partner information, the processing of credit card transactions, online e-commerce activities and our interaction with the public in the social media space. Our company implemented a hybrid working model. Many of our corporate employees and independent contractors returned to offices several days a week but continued to work remotely the other days. Continued remote working has increased our dependence on digital technology. Despite the security measures we have in place, including those described in Item 1C “Cybersecurity”, the possibility of a successful cyber-attack on any one or all of these systems is a serious threat. The retail industry, in particular, has been the target of many cyber-attacks. As part of our business model, we collect, retain and transmit confidential information and personal data over public networks. In addition to our own databases, we use third-party service providers to store, process and transmit this information on our behalf. Although we contractually require these service providers to implement and use reasonable and adequate security measures and data protection, we cannot control third parties and cannot guarantee that a personal data or security breach will not occur in the future either at their location or within their systems. We also store all designs, goods specifications, projected sales and distribution plans for our finished products digitally. We have enterprise class and industry comparable security measures in place to protect both our physical facilities and digital systems from attacks. Despite these efforts, however, we may be vulnerable to targeted or random cyber-attacks, personal data or security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer malware, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other similar events. Further, like other companies in the retail industry, during the ordinary course of business, we and our vendors have in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, cyber-attacks of varying degrees and types, including phishing and other attempts to breach or gain unauthorized access to our systems. To date, these attacks have not had a material impact on our operations, but we cannot provide assurance that cyber-attacks will not have a material impact in the future. Awareness and sensitivity to personal data breaches and cyber security threats by consumers, employees and lawmakers is at an all-time high. Any misappropriation or unauthorized access to confidential or personal information gathered, stored or used by us, be it intentional or accidental, could have a material impact on the operation of our business, including severely damaging our reputation and our relationships with our customers, employees, vendors and investors. We have been incurring and expect that we will continue to incur significant costs implementing additional security measures to protect against new or enhanced data security or privacy threats, or to comply with current and new international, federal and state laws governing the unauthorized disclosure, access to, loss, alteration or exfiltration of confidential and personal information which are continuously being enacted and proposed such as the General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR") in the E.U. the UK GDPR, the American Privacy Rights Act (bill), the California Consumer Privacy Act ("CCPA") as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act ("CPRA"), the Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act ("VCDPA"), the Colorado Privacy Act ("CPA"), the Utah Consumer Privacy Act ("UCPA"), the Connecticut Data Privacy Act ("CTDPA"), the Montana Consumer Data Privacy Act ("MCDPA"), the Washington My Health My Data Act ("WMHMDA"), the Florida Digital Bill of Rights ("FDBR"), the Texas Data Privacy and Security Act ("TDPSA") and other comprehensive and sectoral state privacy laws in the U.S., as well as increased cyber security and privacy protection costs such as organizational changes, deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees and contractors, engaging outside counsel, third-party experts and consultants. We may also experience loss of revenues resulting from unauthorized use of proprietary information including our intellectual property. Lastly, we could face sizable fines, significant breach containment and notification costs to supervisory authorities 22 and the affected data subjects, and increased litigation and customer claims, as a result of cyber security or personal data breaches. While we carry cyber liability insurance, such insurance may not cover us with respect to any or all claims or costs associated with such a breach. In addition, we have e-commerce sites in certain countries throughout the world, including the U.S., Canada, Japan, South Korea, Greater China, Europe, Middle East, Australia and Southeast Asia and have plans for additional e-commerce sites in other parts of the world. Additionally, Tapestry has informational websites in various countries. Given the robust nature of our e-commerce presence and digital strategy, it is imperative that we and our e-commerce partners maintain uninterrupted operation of our: (i) computer hardware, (ii) software systems, (iii) customer databases and (iv) ability to email or otherwise keep in contact with our current and potential customers. Despite our preventative efforts, our systems are vulnerable from time-to-time to damage, disruption or interruption from, among other things, physical damage, natural disasters, inadequate system capacity, system issues, security and personal data breaches, email blocking lists, computer malware or power outages. Any material disruptions in our e-commerce presence or information technology systems and applications could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A delay, disruption in, failure of, or inability to upgrade our information technology systems precisely and efficiently could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and cash flow. We rely heavily on various information and other business systems, including data analytics and machine learning, to manage our operations, including management of our supply chain, point-of-sale processing in our brands’ stores, our online businesses associated with each brand and various other processes and metrics. We are continually evaluating and implementing upgrades and changes to our systems. In addition, from time to time, we implement new systems. Implementing new systems and upgrading existing systems and data analytics models carries substantial risk, including failure to operate as designed, failure to properly integrate with other systems, failure to accurately capture or report data or metrics, potential loss of confidential and personal information, cost overruns, implementation delays and disruption of operations. Furthermore, failure of our computer systems due to inadequate system capacity, computer viruses, human error, changes in programming, security and personal data breaches, system upgrades or migration of these services, as well as employee, vendor and consumer privacy concerns and new privacy and security laws and global government regulations, individually or in accumulation, could have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and cash flow. Risks Related to our Indebtedness We have incurred a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could restrict our ability to engage in additional transactions or incur additional indebtedness. As of June 29, 2024, our consolidated debt was approximately $7.24 billion. In order to consummate the Capri Acquisition, we issued approximately $6.10 billion of Capri Acquisition Senior Notes (as defined below) in November 2023 and expect to incur up to an additional $1.40 billion of indebtedness under the Capri Acquisition Term Loan Facilities (as defined below) at closing. We also expect to assume certain of Capri’s indebtedness outstanding at closing. This substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences to our business including making it more difficult to satisfy our debt obligations, increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate and restricting us from pursuing certain business opportunities. In addition, the terms of our $2.00 billion Revolving Credit Facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility") contain certain affirmative and negative covenants, including limits on our ability to incur debt, grant liens, engage in mergers and dispose of assets, make certain investments, engage in certain transactions with its affiliates and make certain dividends and other distributions. The Revolving Credit Facility includes a maximum net leverage ratio of 4:00 to 1:00, which, upon the consummation of the Capri Acquisition, increases to (i) 4.75 to 1.00 from and including the closing date of the Capri Acquisition to but excluding June 28, 2025, (ii) 4.50 to 1.00 from and including June 28, 2025 to but excluding June 27, 2026, and (iii) 4.00 to 1.00 from and including June 27, 2026 and thereafter. We have also entered into the $1.40 billion Capri Acquisition Term Loan Facilities, comprised of (i) the Tranche A term loan commitments, in an aggregate amount of $1.05 billion and which mature three years after the date on which the Capri Acquisition is consummated, and (ii) the Tranche B term loan commitments, in an aggregate amount of $350 million and which mature five years after the date on which the Capri Acquisition is consummated. The Capri Acquisition Term Loan Facilities currently remain unfunded. The Capri Acquisition Term Loan Facilities include the same affirmative and negative covenants as our Revolving Credit Facility and requires compliance with the same maximum net leverage ratio from and after consummation of the Capri Acquisition. Refer to Note 12, "Debt", for a summary of these terms and additional information on the terms of our Revolving Credit Facility, Capri Acquisition Term Loan Facilities and outstanding senior notes, including the Capri Acquisition Senior Notes. 23 The consequences and limitations under our Revolving Credit Facility, our Capri Acquisition Term Loan Facilities and our other outstanding indebtedness could impede our ability to engage in future business opportunities or strategic acquisitions. In addition, a prolonged disruption in our business may impact our ability to satisfy the leverage ratio covenant under our Revolving Credit Facility and, once the Capri Acquisition has been consummated, our Capri Acquisition Term Loan Facilities. Non-compliance with these terms would constitute an event of default under our credit facilities, which may result in acceleration of payment to the lenders. In the event of an acceleration of payment to the lenders, this would result in a cross default of the Company’s senior notes (including the Capri Acquisition Senior Notes), causing the Company’s outstanding borrowings to also become due and payable on demand. The amount of cash required to service our increased indebtedness is greater than the amount of cash flows required prior to the announcement of the Capri Acquisition. Our ability to generate cash flows from our operations is, to a certain extent, subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. As a result of having operations outside of the U.S., we are also exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Substantial changes in foreign currency exchange rates could cause our sales and profitability to be negatively impacted. Risks Related to Environmental, Social, and Governance Issues The risks associated with climate change and other environmental impacts and increased focus by stakeholders on climate change, could negatively affect our business and operations. Our business is susceptible to risks associated with climate change, including through disruption to our supply chain, potentially impacting the production and distribution of our products including availability and pricing of raw materials, as well as shipping disruptions and/or higher freight costs. Climate change can lead to physical and transition risks impacting our business. The physical risks result from climatic events, such as wildfires, storms and floods, whereas transition risks result from policy action taken to transition the economy off of fossil fuels. Increased frequency and/or intensity of extreme weather events (such as storms and floods) due to climate change could also lead to more frequent store and fulfillment center closures, adversely impacting retail traffic and/or consumer's disposable income levels or spending habits on discretionary items, or otherwise disrupt business operations in the communities in which we operate, any of which could result in lost sales or higher costs. There is also increased focus from our stakeholders, including consumers, employees and investors, on climate change issues. Many countries in which we and our suppliers operate have begun to enact new legislation and regulations in an attempt to mitigate the potential impacts of climate change, which could result in higher sourcing, operational and compliance-related costs for the Company. Such proposed measures include expanded disclosure requirements regarding GHG emissions and other climate-related information, as well as independent auditors providing some level of attestation to the accuracy of such disclosures. Inconsistency of legislation and regulations among jurisdictions may also affect our compliance costs with such laws and regulations. An assessment of the potential impact of future climate change legislation, regulations or industry standards, as well as any international treaties and accords, will be fraught with uncertainty given the wide scope of potential regulatory change in the countries in which we operate. Any failure on our part to comply with such climate change-related regulations could lead to adverse consumer actions and/or investment decisions by investors, as well as expose us to legal risk. Increased scrutiny from investors and others regarding our ESG initiatives, including matters of significance relating to sustainability, could result in additional costs or risks and adversely impact our reputation. Stakeholders, including consumers, employees and investors, have increasingly focused on corporate responsibility practices of companies. Although we have announced our ESG strategy and related goals, there can be no assurance that our stakeholders will agree with our strategy or that we will be successful in achieving our goals. Failure to implement our strategy or achieve our goals on a timely basis, or at all, could damage our reputation, causing our investors or consumers to lose confidence in our Company and brands, and negatively impact our operations. In addition, our brand is susceptible to risks associated with changing consumer attitudes regarding social and political issues and consumer perceptions of our position on these issues. Any ESG report that we publish or other sustainability disclosure we make may include our policies and practices on a variety of social and ethical matters, including corporate governance, environmental compliance, employee health and safety practices, human capital management, product quality, supply chain management and workforce inclusion and diversity. It is possible that stakeholders may not be satisfied with our ESG practices or the speed of our adoption of these practices. We could 24 also incur additional costs and require additional resources to monitor, report and comply with various ESG practices and various legal, legislative and regulatory requirements. Also, our failure, or perceived failure, to meet the standards included in any sustainability disclosure could negatively impact our reputation, employee retention and the willingness of our customers and suppliers to do business with us. In addition, many of the countries where we and our suppliers operate continue to enact legislation and regulatory rules that address climate change and other sustainability issues, including expanded disclosure requirements on GHG emissions and other climate related information. Consumers, trade associations, interested non-governmental organizations and other stakeholders have increased focus and emphasis on sustainable features of products and other sustainability topics, including traceability and transparency, sustainability claims and product labeling requirements, responsible sourcing and deforestation, the use of energy and water, and the recyclability or recoverability of packaging, product, and materials. The rules and regulations and governmental oversight continue to rapidly evolve with varying degrees of complexity and scope, many that include penalties for non-compliance. Any failure on our part to comply with sustainability related legislation, regulations and frameworks could lead to adverse consumer action, government enforcement action and private litigation. Our ability to comply with the evolution of consumer expectations, regulations and governmental standards and legal landscape can lead to increased risk, operational costs and management time and effort. Risks Related to Global Economic Conditions and Legal and Regulatory Matters We face risks associated with potential changes to international trade agreements and the imposition of additional duties on importing our products. Most of our imported products are subject to duties, indirect taxes, quotas and non-tariff trade barriers that may limit the quantity of products that we may import into the U.S. and other countries or may impact the cost of such products. To maximize opportunities, we rely on free trade agreements and other supply chain initiatives and, as a result, we are subject to government regulations and restrictions with respect to our cross-border activity. For example, we have historically received benefits from duty-free imports on certain products from certain countries pursuant to the U.S. Generalized System of Preferences ("GSP") program. The GSP program expired on December 31, 2020, resulting in additional duties that have negatively impacting gross margin. Additionally, we are subject to government regulations relating to importation activities, including related to U.S. Customs and Border Protection ("CBP") enforcement actions. The imposition of taxes, duties and quotas, the withdrawal from or material modification to trade agreements, and/or if CBP detains shipments of our goods pursuant to the UFLPA, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Since fiscal 2019, the U.S. and China have both imposed tariffs on the importation of certain product categories into the respective country, with limited progress in negotiations to reduce or remove the tariffs. However, while the U.S. has participated in multi-national negotiations on trade agreements and duty rates, there continues to be a possibility of increases in tariffs on goods imported into the U.S. from other countries, which could in turn adversely affect the profitability for these products and have an adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations as a result. Fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility of our financial results and stock price. We are subject to income taxes in many jurisdictions. We record tax expense based on our estimates of taxable income and required reserves for uncertain tax positions in multiple tax jurisdictions. At any one time, multiple tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. The results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may result in a settlement which differs from our original estimate. As a result, we expect that throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly effective tax rates as events occur and exposures are evaluated. In addition, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings. Further, proposed tax changes that may be enacted in the future could impact our current or future tax structure and effective tax rates. On August 16, 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 was signed into law by the Biden Administration, with tax provisions primarily focused on implementing a 15% CAMT on global adjusted financial statement income and a 1% excise tax on share repurchases. The CAMT was effective at the beginning of fiscal 2024 and did not have a material impact on the Company’s effective tax rate. On December 12, 2022, the E.U. member states also reached an agreement to implement the OECD’s reform of international taxation known as GloBE, which broadly mirrors the Inflation Reduction Act by imposing a 15% global minimum tax on multinational companies. Based on the countries in which we do business that have enacted legislation effective January 1, 2025, we do not expect the impact of these changes to be material for fiscal 2025. A number of other countries are also implementing similar legislation with effective dates starting in 2026. As a result, we do expect a modest negative impact on the Company’s effective tax rate, however, this could change as other countries enact similar legislation and further guidance is released. We continue to closely monitor regulatory developments to assess potential impacts. 25 Our business is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Due to our global operations, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our sales, profits, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries transact in currencies other than their functional currency, including intercompany transactions, which results in foreign currency transaction gains or losses. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against these subsidiaries’ foreign currencies, the translation of their foreign currency denominated transactions may decrease consolidated net sales and profitability. Furthermore, majority of the Company's purchases and sales involving international parties, excluding international consumer sales, are denominated in U.S. dollars. In order to minimize the impact on earnings related to foreign currency rate movements, we hedge certain cross currency intercompany inventory transactions and foreign currency balance sheet exposures which includes the Company’s cross currency intercompany loan portfolio. We cannot ensure, however, that these hedges will fully offset the impact of foreign currency rate movements. Our continued international expansion will increase our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property and curb the sale of counterfeit merchandise, which can cause harm to our reputation and business. We believe our trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights are extremely important to our success and our competitive position. We devote significant resources to the registration and protection of our trademarks and to anti-counterfeiting efforts worldwide. We pursue entities involved in the trafficking and sale of counterfeit merchandise through legal action or other appropriate measures. We cannot guarantee that the actions we have taken to curb counterfeiting and protect our intellectual property will be adequate to protect the brand and prevent counterfeiting in the future. Despite our efforts, our brands are still susceptible to counterfeiting. Such counterfeiting dilutes our brands and can cause harm to our reputation and business. Our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights are from time to time met with defenses and counterclaims attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. In the ordinary course of business, we become involved in trademark oppositions and cancellation actions. Our trademark applications may face objections from the trademark offices we seek to register them in and may not mature into registrations. Other parties may seek to invalidate our trademarks or assert violations of their trademarks or other intellectual property and seek to block our sales of certain products. Unplanned increases in legal and investigative fees and other costs associated with defending our intellectual property rights could result in higher operating expenses. Finally, many countries’ laws do not protect intellectual property rights to the same degree as U.S. laws. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock If we are unable to pay quarterly dividends or conduct stock repurchases at intended levels, our reputation and stock price may be negatively impacted. In fiscal 2024, the Company returned capital to its shareholders through a quarterly cash dividend of $0.35 per common share, for an annual dividend rate of $1.40 per share, or $321 million. In August 2023, the Company suspended its share repurchase activity in connection with the Merger Agreement with Capri. The dividend program and the stock repurchase program each require the use of a significant portion of our cash flow. Our ability to pay dividends and conduct stock repurchases will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future. This ability may be subject to certain economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. Our Board may, at its discretion, decrease or entirely discontinue the dividend program at any time. Any failure to pay dividends or conduct stock repurchases, or conduct either program at all or at expected levels, after we have announced our intention to do so may negatively impact our reputation, investor confidence in us and negatively impact our stock price. Our stock price may periodically fluctuate based on the accuracy of our earnings guidance or other forward-looking statements regarding our financial performance, including our ability to return value to investors. Our business and long-range planning process is designed to maximize our long-term strength, growth, and profitability, and not to achieve an earnings target in any particular fiscal quarter. We believe that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of the Company and our stockholders. At the same time, however, we recognize that, when possible, it is helpful to provide investors with guidance as to our forecast of net sales, operating income, net interest expense, tax rate, earnings per diluted share and other financial metrics or projections. While we generally expect to provide updates to our financial guidance when we report our results each fiscal quarter, we do not have any responsibility to provide guidance going forward or to update any of our forward-looking statements at such times or otherwise. In addition, any longer-term guidance that we provide is based on goals that we believe, at the time guidance is given, are reasonably attainable for growth and performance over a number of years. However, such long-range targets are more difficult to predict than our current quarter and fiscal year expectations. If, or when, we announce actual results that differ from those that have been predicted by us, outside investment analysts or others, our stock price could be adversely affected. Investors who rely on these predictions when making investment decisions with respect to our securities do so at their own risk. We take no responsibility for any losses suffered as a result of such changes in our stock price. 26 We periodically return value to investors through payment of quarterly dividends and common stock repurchases. In August 2023, the Company suspended its share repurchase activity in connection with the Merger Agreement with Capri. The market price of our securities could be adversely affected if our cash dividend rate or common stock repurchase activity differs from investors’ expectations. Refer to “ If we are unable to pay quarterly dividends or conduct stock repurchases at intended levels, our reputation and stock price may be negatively impacted. ” for additional discussion of our quarterly dividend. Certain provisions of the Company's charter, bylaws and Maryland law may delay or prevent an acquisition of the Company by a third-party. The Company's charter, bylaws and Maryland law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire the Company without the consent of our Board. The Company's charter permits a majority of its entire Board, without stockholder approval, to amend the charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that the Company has the authority to issue. In addition, the Company's Board may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares without stockholder approval. Although the Company's Board has no intention to do so at the present time, it could establish a class or series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for the Company's common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of the Company's stockholders. The Company's bylaws provide that nominations of persons for election to the Company's Board and the proposal of business to be considered at an annual meeting of stockholders may be made only in the notice of the meeting, by the Company's Board, by a stockholder who is a stockholder of record as of the record date set by the Company's Board for purposes of determining stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, at the time of the giving of the notice by the stockholder pursuant to the Company's bylaws and at the time of the meeting, who is entitled to vote at the meeting in the election of each individual so nominated or on any such other business and has complied with the advance notice procedures of the Company's bylaws or by qualifying stockholders that satisfy the proxy access provisions of the Company’s bylaws. Under Maryland law, business combinations, including mergers, consolidations, share exchanges or, in circumstances specified in the statute, asset transfers or issuances or reclassifications of equity securities, between the Company and any interested stockholder, generally defined as any person who beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the Company’s common stock, or any affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for a five-year period, beginning on the most recent date such person became an interested stockholder. After this period, a business combination must be approved by two super-majority stockholder votes, unless common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined under Maryland law, for their shares in the form of cash or other consideration in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder for its shares. The statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by our Board prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. The Company’s charter provides that, except as may be provided by our Board in setting the terms of any class or series of preferred stock, any vacancy on our Board may be filled only by a majority of the remaining directors, even if the remaining directors do not constitute a quorum. The Company’s charter further provides that a director may be removed only by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of directors. This provision, when coupled with the exclusive power of our Board to fill vacant directorships, may preclude stockholders from removing incumbent directors except by a substantial affirmative vote and filling the vacancies created by such removal with their own nominees. Our bylaws designate the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland as the sole and exclusive forum for certain actions, including derivative actions, which could limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with the Company and its directors, officers, other employees, or the Company's stockholders and may discourage lawsuits with respect to such claims. Unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the sole and exclusive forum for (a) any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of the Company, (b) any action asserting a claim of breach of any duty owed by any director or officer or other employee of the Company to the Company or to the stockholders of the Company, (c) any action asserting a claim against the Company or any director or officer or other employee of the Company arising pursuant to any provision of the Maryland General Corporation Law, the charter or the bylaws of the Company or (d) any action asserting a claim against the Company or any director or officer or other employee of the Company that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland (or, if that Court does not have jurisdiction, the United States District court for the District of Maryland, Baltimore Division). This exclusive forum provision is intended to apply to claims arising under Maryland state law and would not apply to claims brought pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any other claim for which the federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction. 27 Although we believe the exclusive forum provision benefits us by providing increased consistency in the application of Maryland law for the specified types of actions and proceedings, this provision may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with the Company and its directors, officers or other employees and may discourage lawsuits with respect to such claims.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion of the Company's financial condition and results of operations should be read together with the Company’s consolidated financial statements and notes to those financial statements included elsewhere in this document. When used herein, the terms “the Company,” "Tapestry," “we,” “us” and “our” refer to Tapestry, Inc., including consolidated subsidiaries. References to "Coach," "Stuart Weitzman," "Kate Spade" or "kate spade new york" refer only to the referenced brand. INTRODUCTION Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (“MD&A”) is provided as a supplement to the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto to help provide an understanding of our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. MD&A is organized as follows: • Overview. This section provides a general description of the business and brands as well as the Company’s growth strategy. • Global Economic Conditions and Industry Trends. This section includes a discussion on global economic conditions and industry trends that affect comparability that are important in understanding results of operations and financial conditions, and in anticipating future trends. • Results of operations . An analysis of our results of operations in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 . • Non-GAAP measures. This section includes non-GAAP measures that are useful to investors and others in evaluating the Company’s ongoing operating and financial results in a manner that is consistent with management's evaluation of business performance and understanding how such results compare with the Company’s historical performance. • Financial Condition. This section includes a discussion on liquidity and capital resources including an analysis of changes in cash flow as well as working capital and capital expenditures. • Critical Accounting policies and estimates. This section includes any critical accounting policies or estimates that impact the Company. OVERVIEW Fiscal 2024, fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022 were 52-week periods. Tapestry, Inc. is a house of iconic accessories and lifestyle brands. Our global house of brands unites the magic of Coach, kate spade new york and Stuart Weitzman. Each of our brands are unique and independent, while sharing a commitment to innovation and authenticity defined by distinctive products and differentiated customer experiences across business channels and geographies. We use our collective strengths to move our customers and empower our communities, to make the fashion industry more sustainable and to build a company that’s equitable, inclusive and diverse. Individually, our brands are iconic. Together, we can stretch what’s possible. The Company has three reportable segments: • Coach - Includes global sales of primarily Coach brand products to customers through our DTC, wholesale and licensing businesses. • Kate Spade - Includes global sales primarily of kate spade new york brand products to customers through our DTC, wholesale and licensing businesses. • Stuart Weitzman - Includes global sales of Stuart Weitzman brand products primarily through our DTC and wholesale businesses. Each of our brands is unique and independent, while sharing a commitment to innovation and authenticity defined by distinctive products and differentiated customer experiences across business channels and geographies. Our success does not depend solely on the performance of a single business channel, geographic area or brand. 33 Capri Holdings Limited Acquisition On August 10, 2023, the Company entered into the Merger Agreement by and among the Company, Sunrise Merger Sub, Inc., a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Tapestry, and Capri for $57.00 per share in cash for a total enterprise value of approximately $8.50 billion. The Capri Acquisition, once completed, will bring together six highly complementary brands with global reach, powered by the Company’s data-rich customer engagement platform and diversified, direct-to-consumer operating model. The transaction is expected to close during calendar year 2024. In order to finance the Capri Acquisition, on November 27, 2023, the Company issued $4.50 billion of U.S. dollar-denominated senior unsecured notes (the "Capri Acquisition USD Senior Notes") and €1.50 billion of Euro-denominated senior unsecured notes (the "Capri Acquisition EUR Senior Notes" and, together with the Capri Acquisition USD Senior Notes, the "Capri Acquisition Senior Notes") which, together with the $1.40 billion of delayed draw unsecured term loan facilities (the "Capri Acquisition Term Loan Facilities") executed on August 30, 2023, complete the expected financing for the Capri Acquisition. The Company has received regulatory approval from all applicable jurisdictions except for the United States. On April 22, 2024, the FTC filed a complaint against the Company and Capri in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York seeking to enjoin the consummation of the Capri Acquisition. The FTC’s complaint alleges that the Capri Acquisition, if consummated, would violate Section 7 of the Clayton Act and that the Merger Agreement and the Capri Acquisition constitute unfair methods of competition in violation of Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act and should be enjoined. The Company believes the FTC’s claims are without merit and intends to defend the lawsuit vigorously.Refer to Note 5, "Acquisitions" for further information. 2025 Growth Strategy In the first quarter of fiscal 2023, the Company introduced the 2025 growth strategy (“ future speed”), designed to amplify and extend the competitive advantages of its brands, with a focus on four strategic priorities: • Building Lasting Customer Relationships: The Company’s brands aim to leverage Tapestry’s transformed business model to drive customer lifetime value through a combination of increased customer acquisition, retention and reactivation. • Fueling Fashion Innovation & Product Excellence: The Company aims to drive sustained growth in core handbags and small leathergoods, while accelerating gains in footwear and lifestyle products. • Delivering Compelling Omni-Channel Experiences: The Company aims to extend its omni-channel leadership to meet the customer wherever they shop, delivering growth online and in stores. • Powering Global Growth: The Company aims to support balanced growth across regions, prioritizing North America and China, its largest markets, while capitalizing on opportunities in under-penetrated geographies such as Southeast Asia and Europe. GLOBAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND INDUSTRY TRENDS The environment in which we operate is subject to a number of different factors driving global consumer spending. Consumer preferences, macroeconomic conditions, foreign currency fluctuations and geopolitical events continue to impact overall levels of consumer travel and spending on discretionary items, with inconsistent patterns across business channels and geographies. We will continue to monitor the below trends and evaluate and adjust our operating strategies and cost management opportunities to mitigate the related impact on our results of operations, while remaining focused on the long-term growth of our business and protecting the value of our brands. For a detailed discussion of significant risk factors that have the potential to cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations, see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors". Current Macroeconomic Conditions and Outlook During fiscal 2024, the macroeconomic environment remained challenging and volatile. Several organizations that monitor the world’s economy, including the International Monetary Fund, continue to forecast growth in the global economy, and remains unchanged since the third quarter of fiscal 2024. The forecast is below the historical growth average and is reflective of the current volatile environment, including tighter monetary and fiscal policies which have started to moderate inflation, financial market volatility and the negative economic impacts of geopolitical instability in certain regions of the world. In fiscal 2024, freight costs have continued to moderate as compared to prior year. As a result, during fiscal 2024, the Company incurred lower freight expense of $84.2 million when compared to the prior year, positively impacting gross margin by approximately 130 basis points. In fiscal 2024, the U.S. Dollar has continued to fluctuate as compared to foreign currencies in regions where we conduct our business. During fiscal 2024, this trend has resulted in impacts to our business including, but not limited to, decreased Net 34 sales of $77.3 million, a positive impact to gross margin of approximately 30 basis points which benefited from the Company's hedging activity and approximately 10 basis point positive impact to operating margin. Currency volatility, political instability and potential changes to trade agreements or duty rates may also contribute to a worsening of the macroeconomic environment or adversely impact our business. Since fiscal 2019, the U.S. and China have both imposed tariffs on the importation of certain product categories into the respective country, with limited progress in negotiations to reduce or remove the tariffs. In response to the current environment, the Company continues to take strategic actions considering near-term exigencies and remains committed to maintaining the health of the brands and business. Geopolitical Disruptions to Supply Chain During fiscal 2024, certain geopolitical events have impacted trade routes in the Red Sea which have modestly increased inventory in-transit times and costs. The Company has taken actions to minimize any potential disruptions and, at this time, does not anticipate material impact to our business or operating results. We will continue to closely monitor the situation. Covid-19 Pandemic The Covid-19 pandemic has resulted in varying degrees of business disruption for the Company since it began in fiscal 2020 and has impacted all regions around the world, resulting in restrictions and shutdowns implemented by national, state and local authorities. Such disruptions continued during the first half of fiscal 2023, and the Company's results in Greater China were adversely impacted as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. Starting in December 2022, certain government restrictions were lifted in the region and business trends have improved. During fiscal 2024, the Covid-19 pandemic did not materially impact our business or operating results. We continue to monitor the latest developments regarding the Covid-19 pandemic and potential impacts on our business, operating results and outlook. Refer to Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" for additional discussion regarding risks to our business associated with the Covid-19 pandemic. Tax Legislation On August 16, 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 was signed into law by the Biden Administration, with tax provisions primarily focused on implementing a 15% CAMT on global adjusted financial statement income and a 1% excise tax on share repurchases. The CAMT was effective at the beginning of fiscal 2024 and did not have a material impact on the Company’s effective tax rate. On December 12, 2022, the E.U. member states also reached an agreement to implement the OECD’s reform of international taxation known as GloBE, which broadly mirrors the Inflation Reduction Act by imposing a 15% global minimum tax on multinational companies. Based on the countries in which we do business that have enacted legislation effective January 1, 2025, we do not expect the impact of these changes to be material for fiscal 2025. A number of other countries are also implementing similar legislation with effective dates starting in 2026. As a result, we do expect a modest negative impact on the Company’s effective tax rate, however, this could change as other countries enact similar legislation and further guidance is released. We continue to closely monitor regulatory developments to assess potential impacts. 35 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FISCAL 2024 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2023 The following table summarizes results of operations for fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023. All percentages shown in the tables below and the related discussion that follows have been calculated using unrounded numbers. NM - Not meaningful GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation The Company’s reported results are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). The reported results during fiscal 2024 reflect certain items which affect the comparability of our results, as noted in the following table. There were no charges affecting comparability during fiscal 2023. Refer to "Non-GAAP Measures" herein for further discussion on the Non-GAAP measures. 36 Fiscal 2024 Items In fiscal 2024, the Company incurred charges as follows: • Acquisition Costs - Total pre-tax charges of $226.6 million attributable to the Capri Acquisition. These charges include: ◦ Interest expense, net : $116.7 million of financing related charges, which primarily includes the net impact of the Capri Acquisition Senior Notes, and the financing fees of the unsecured bridge loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $8.00 billion; ◦ SG&A expenses : $109.9 million primarily related to professional fees recorded within Corporate. These actions taken together negatively impacted Operating income by $109.9 million, increased Interest expense, net by $116.7 million and reduced the Provision for income taxes by $42.4 million, resulting in a net decrease in Net income by $184.2 million, or $0.79 per diluted share. Supplemental Segment Data 37 Tapestry, Inc. Summary - Fiscal 2024 Currency Fluctuation Effects The change in net sales in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 has been presented both including and excluding currency fluctuation effects. All percentages shown in the tables below and the discussion that follows have been calculated using unrounded numbers. Net Sales Net sales in fiscal 2024 increased 0.2% or $10.3 million to $6.67 billion. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, net sales increased by 1.3% or $87.6 million. • Coach Net Sales increased 2.7% or $134.9 million to $5.10 billion in fiscal 2024. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, net sales increased 4.1% or $202.4 million. This increase in net sales was primarily due to an increase of $110.7 million in DTC sales driven by an increase in store and to a lesser extent, e-commerce sales. The increase in net sales was also attributed to an $81.4 million increase in wholesale sales primarily driven by international, which included growth in the digital wholesale channel. • Kate Spade Net Sales decreased 6.0% or $84.5 million to $1.33 billion in fiscal 2024. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, net sales decreased 5.4% or $77.1 million. This decrease in net sales was primarily due a decrease of $76.9 million in DTC sales as a result of lower store and to a lesser extent, e-commerce sales. • Stuart Weitzman Net Sales decreased by 14.2% or $40.1 million to $241.5 million in fiscal 2024. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, net sales decreased 13.4% or $37.7 million. Gross Profit Gross profit increased 3.7% or $174.6 million to $4.89 billion in fiscal 2024 from $4.71 billion in fiscal 2023. Gross margin in fiscal 2024 increased 250 basis points to 73.3% as compared to 70.8% in fiscal 2023. This increase in Gross margin was primarily attributed to lower freight costs, net pricing improvements and favorable currency impacts. Refer to "Current Macroeconomic Conditions and Outlook" herein, for further information. The Company includes inbound product-related transportation costs from our service providers within Cost of sales. The Company, similar to some companies, includes certain transportation-related costs due to our distribution network in SG&A expenses rather than in Cost of sales; for this reason, our gross margins may not be comparable to that of entities that include all costs related to their distribution network in Cost of sales. 38 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses SG&A expenses increased 5.8% or $206.9 million to $3.75 billion in fiscal 2024 as compared to $3.54 billion in fiscal 2023. As a percentage of net sales, SG&A expenses increased to 56.2% during fiscal 2024 as compared to 53.1% during fiscal 2023. Excluding items affecting comparability of 109.9 million in fiscal 2024, SG&A expenses increased 2.7% or $97.0 million to $3.64 billion from $3.54 billion in fiscal 2023. SG&A as a percentage of net sales increased 140 basis points to 54.5% as compared to 53.1% in fiscal 2023. This increase in SG&A as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to higher marketing spend, higher compensation costs, increased occupancy costs and higher professional fees, partially offset by a decrease in distribution costs. (1) In fiscal 2024, Corporate incurred charges affecting comparability of $109.9 million. Excluding those items affecting comparability, SG&A expenses increased 10.0% or $46.7 million to $512.5 million in fiscal 2024 as compared to $465.8 million in fiscal 2023. (2) Corporate expenses, which are included within SG&A expenses discussed above but are not directly attributable to a reportable segment. Operating Income (Loss) Operating income decreased $32.3 million to $1.14 billion during fiscal 2024 as compared to $1.17 billion in fiscal 2023. Operating margin was 17.1% in fiscal 2024 as compared to 17.6% in fiscal 2023. Excluding items affecting comparability of $109.9 million in fiscal 2024, operating income increased $77.6 million to $1.25 billion from $1.17 billion in fiscal 2023; and operating margin increased 110 basis points to 18.7% in fiscal 2024 as compared to 17.6% in fiscal 2023. This increase in operating margin was primarily attributed to an increase of 250 basis points in gross margin partially offset by a 140 basis points increase in SG&A as a percentage of sales. • Coach Operating Income increased $121.2 million to $1.65 billion in fiscal 2024, resulting in an operating margin increase of 160 basis points to 32.4%, as compared to $1.53 billion and 30.8%, respectively in fiscal 2023. This increase in operating margin was primarily attributed to: ◦ Gross Margin , increased 260 basis points mainly due to lower freight costs, net pricing improvements and favorable currency impacts; ◦ SG&A expenses as a percentage of net sales , increased 100 basis points mainly due to higher marketing spend and higher compensation costs, partially offset by a decrease in distribution costs. • Kate Spade Operating Income increased $17.6 million to $132.6 million in fiscal 2024, resulting in an operating margin increase of 180 basis points to 9.9%, as compared to 115.0 million and 8.1%, respectively in fiscal 2023. This increase in operating margin was primarily attributed to: 39 ◦ Gross Margin , increased 180 basis points mainly due to lower freight costs and net pricing improvements; ◦ SG&A expenses as a percentage of net sales , remained even to prior year mainly driven by increased occupancy costs and higher information technology costs, partially offset by lower marketing spend, depreciation and lower compensation costs. • Stuart Weitzman Operating Loss increased $14.5 million to a loss of $21.2 million in fiscal 2024, resulting in an operating margin decrease of 640 basis points to (8.8)%, as compared to an operating loss of $6.7 million and operating margin of (2.4)% in fiscal 2023. • Corporate Operating Expenses increased (33.6)% or $156.6 million to $622.4 million in fiscal 2024. Excluding items affecting comparability, Corporate operating expenses increased $46.7 million to $512.5 million from $465.8 million in fiscal 2023. This increase in operating expenses was attributed to an increase in SG&A expenses primarily due to increased compensation costs, higher professional fees and increased occupancy costs. Interest Expense, net Interest expense, net, increased $97.4 million to $125.0 million in fiscal 2024 as compared to $27.6 million in fiscal 2023. Excluding items affecting compatibility, Interest expense, net, decreased $19.3 million to $8.3 million from $27.6 million in fiscal 2023. This decrease in Interest expense, net, was mainly due to higher interest income partially offset by higher interest on the term loan due 2027 (the "Term Loan due 2027"). Other Expense (Income) Other expense increased $1.5 million to $3.2 million in fiscal 2024 as compared to an expense of $1.7 million in fiscal 2023. This increase in other expense was related to an increase in foreign exchange losses. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 19.4% in fiscal 2024 as compared to 18.1% in fiscal 2023. Excluding items affecting comparability, the effective tax rate was 19.2% in fiscal 2024 as compared to 18.1% in fiscal 2023. The increase in effective tax rate was primarily driven by discrete items recognized in the period partially offset by geographic mix of earnings. Net Income (Loss) Net income decreased 12.8% or $120.0 million to $816.0 million in fiscal 2024 as compared to a net income of $936.0 million in fiscal 2023. Excluding items affecting comparability, net income increased 6.9% or $64.2 million to $1.00 billion in fiscal 2024 from $936.0 million in fiscal 2023. Net Income (Loss) per Share Net income per diluted share was $3.50 in fiscal 2024 as compared to net income per diluted share of $3.88 in fiscal 2023. Excluding items affecting comparability, net income per diluted share increased $0.41 to $4.29 in fiscal 2024 from $3.88 in fiscal 2023. This change was primarily due to higher net income and a decrease in shares outstanding. FISCAL 2023 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2022 The comparison of fiscal 2023 to 2022 has been omitted from this Form 10-K, but can be referenced in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 1, 2023, filed on August 17, 2023 within Part II. Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations". 40 NON-GAAP MEASURES The Company’s reported results are presented in accordance with GAAP. The reported SG&A expenses, operating income, interest expense, provision for income taxes, net income and earnings per diluted share in fiscal 2024 reflect certain items affecting comparability, including the impact of Acquisition costs. There were no items affecting comparability in fiscal 2023. As a supplement to the Company's reported results, these metrics are also reported on a non-GAAP basis to exclude the impact of these items along with a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measures. These non-GAAP performance measures were used by management to conduct and evaluate its business during its regular review of operating results for the periods affected. Management and the Company’s Board utilized these non-GAAP measures to make decisions about the uses of Company resources, analyze performance between periods, develop internal projections and measure management performance. The Company’s internal management reporting excluded these items. In addition, the HR Committee uses these non-GAAP measures when setting and assessing achievement of incentive compensation goals. The Company operates on a global basis and reports financial results in U.S. dollars in accordance with GAAP. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can affect the amounts reported by the Company in U.S. dollars with respect to its foreign revenues and profit. Accordingly, certain material increases and decreases in operating results for the Company and its segments have been presented both including and excluding currency fluctuation effects. These effects occur from translating foreign-denominated amounts into U.S. dollars and comparing to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Constant currency information compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period-over-period. The Company calculates constant currency revenue results by translating current period revenue in local currency using the prior year period's currency conversion rate. We believe these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors and others in evaluating the Company’s ongoing operating and financial results in a manner that is consistent with management's evaluation of business performance and understanding how such results compare with the Company’s historical performance. Additionally, we believe presenting certain increases and decreases in constant currency provides a framework for assessing the performance of the Company's business outside the United States and helps investors and analysts understand the effect of significant year-over-year currency fluctuations. We believe excluding these items assists investors and others in developing expectations of future performance. By providing the non-GAAP measures, as a supplement to GAAP information, we believe we are enhancing investors’ understanding of our business and our results of operations. The non-GAAP financial measures are limited in their usefulness and should be considered in addition to, and not in lieu of, GAAP financial measures. Further, these non-GAAP measures may be unique to the Company, as they may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. For a detailed discussion on these non-GAAP measures, see the GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation discussions above in this Item 7. "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." 41 FINANCIAL CONDITION Cash Flows - Fiscal 2024 Compared to Fiscal 2023 The Company’s cash and cash equivalents increased by $5.42 billion in fiscal 2024 compared to a decrease of $63.7 million in fiscal 2023, as discussed below. Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities Net cash provided by operating activities increased $280.4 million primarily due to changes in operating assets and liabilities of $426.8 million partially offset by lower net income of $120.0 million and lower impact of non-cash adjustments of $26.4 million. The $426.8 million increase in changes in operating asset and liability balances was primarily driven by the following: • Accrued liabilities were a source of cash of $91.6 million in fiscal 2024 as compared to a use of cash of $93.0 million in fiscal 2023, primarily driven by accrued incentive compensation and an increase in accrued interest due to issuance of the Capri Acquisition Senior Notes. • Accounts payable were a source of cash of $49.1 million in fiscal 2024 as compared to a use of cash of $98.1 million in fiscal 2023, primarily driven by a reduction of in-transit inventory in the prior year. • Other Assets were a use of cash of $0.1 million in fiscal 2024 as compared to a use of cash of $100.7 million in fiscal 2023, primarily driven by an increase in other receivables due to the net investment hedge, tax refunds in the current year and lower cloud computing project spend. Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities Net cash used in investing activities was $1.04 billion in fiscal 2024 compared to a source of cash of $5.7 million in fiscal 2023, resulting in a $1.05 billion increase in net cash used in investing activities. The $1.04 billion use of cash in fiscal 2024 was primarily due to purchases of investments of $2.71 billion, partially offset by maturities and sales of investments of $1.68 billion, mainly related to the proceeds of the Capri Acquisition Senior Notes. The $5.7 million source of cash in fiscal 2023 was primarily due to proceeds from maturities and sales of investments of $148.0 million, settlement of net investment hedge of $41.9 million, partially offset by capital expenditures of $184.2 million. Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $5.21 billion in fiscal 2024 as compared to a use of cash of $1.04 billion in fiscal 2023, resulting in a $6.25 billion increase in net cash provided by financing activities. The $5.21 billion source of cash in fiscal 2024 was primarily due to proceeds from the issuance of the Capri Acquisition Senior Notes of $6.09 billion, partially offset by the repayment of the Term Loan due 2027 of $468.8 million, and dividend payments of $321.4 million. The $1.04 billion use of cash in fiscal 2023 was primarily due to repurchase of common stock of $703.5 million, dividend payments of $283.3 million, as well as taxes paid to net settle share-based awards of $55.6 million. Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents was a decrease of $12.2 million as compared to a decrease of $8.7 million in fiscal 2023. 42 Cash Flows - Fiscal 2023 Compared to Fiscal 2022 The comparison of fiscal 2023 to 2022 has been omitted from this Form 10-K, but can be referenced in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 1, 2023, filed on August 17, 2023 within Part II. Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations" . Working Capital and Capital Expenditures The following table presents our financial condition as of June 29, 2024 and July 1, 2023 : (1) As of June 29, 2024, approximately 4.2% of our Cash and cash equivalents and Short-term investments were held outside the United States. (2) Refer to Note 12, "Debt" for discussion of the carrying values of our debt. Sources of Liquidity Our primary sources of liquidity are the cash flows generated from our operations, our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, availability under our credit facilities and other available financing options. The following table presents the total availability, borrowings outstanding and remaining availability under our credit facilities as of June 29, 2024: (1) Refer to Note 12, "Debt" for further information on these instruments. (2) The carrying amounts of the China Credit Facility include the impact of changes in the exchange rate of the United States Dollar against the RMB. We believe that our Revolving Credit Facility is adequately diversified with no undue concentrations in any one financial institution. As of June 29, 2024, there were 18 financial institutions participating in the Revolving Credit Facility and 24 financial institutions participating in the Capri Acquisition Term Loan Facilities with no one participant maintaining a combined maximum commitment percentage in excess of 10%. We have no reason to believe, at this time, that the participating institutions will be unable to fulfill their obligations to provide financing in accordance with the terms of the facility in the event we elect to draw funds in the foreseeable future. We have the ability to draw on our credit facilities or access other sources of financing options available to us in the credit and capital markets for, among other things, acquisition or integration-related costs, our restructuring initiatives, settlement of a material contingency or a material adverse business or macroeconomic development, as well as for other general corporate business purposes. 43 If (i) the Capri Acquisition has not been completed by February 10, 2025 (or such later date mutually agreed between the Company and Capri) (such date, the “special mandatory redemption end date”), (ii) prior to the special mandatory redemption end date, the Merger Agreement is terminated in accordance with its terms or (iii) the Company otherwise notifies the trustee that it will not pursue the consummation of the Capri Acquisition, all of the Capri Acquisition Senior Notes will be redeemed at a redemption price equal to 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the special mandatory redemption date. Management believes that cash flows from operations, access to the credit and capital markets and our credit lines, on-hand cash and cash equivalents and our investments will provide adequate funds to support our operating, capital and debt service requirements for fiscal 2025 and beyond. There can be no assurance that any such capital will be available to the Company on acceptable terms or at all. Our ability to fund working capital needs, planned capital expenditures and scheduled debt payments, as well as to comply with all of the financial covenants under our debt agreements, depends on future operating performance and cash flow. This future operating performance and cash flow are subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond the Company's control. Supply Chain Finance To improve our working capital efficiency, we make available to certain suppliers, a voluntary supply chain finance (“SCF”) program that enables our suppliers to sell their receivables from the Company to a global financial institution on a non-recourse basis at a rate that leverages our credit rating. We do not have the ability to refinance or modify payment terms to the global financial institution through the SCF program. No guarantees are provided by the Company or any of our subsidiaries under the SCF program. Refer to Note 2, "Basis of Presentation and Organization," for additional information. Capital Expenditures Total capital expenditures and cloud computing implementation costs were $144.1 million in fiscal 2024. Certain cloud computing implementation costs are recognized within Prepaid expenses and Other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Seasonality The Company's results are typically affected by seasonal trends. During the first fiscal quarter, we typically build inventory for the winter and holiday season. In the second fiscal quarter, working capital requirements are reduced substantially as we generate higher net sales and operating income, especially during the holiday season. Fluctuations in net sales, operating income and operating cash flows of the Company in any fiscal quarter may be affected by the timing of wholesale shipments and other events affecting retail sales, including weather and macroeconomic events, such as pandemic diseases. Stock Repurchase Plan On May 12, 2022, the Company announced the Board authorized the additional repurchase of up to $1.50 billion of its common stock. Pursuant to this program, purchases of the Company's common stock will be made subject to market conditions and at prevailing market prices, through open market purchases. Repurchased shares of common stock will become authorized but unissued shares. These shares may be issued in the future for general corporate and other purposes. In addition, the Company may terminate or limit the stock repurchase program at any time. As of June 29, 2024 the Company had $800 million of additional shares available to be repurchased as authorized under the 2022 Share Repurchase Program. In August 2023, the Company suspended its share repurchase activity in connection with the Capri Acquisition. Refer to Note 5, "Acquisitions," for further information. There were no shares repurchased during fiscal 2024. 44 Contractual and Other Obligations Firm Commitments As of June 29, 2024, the Company's contractual obligations are as follows: (1) The principal amounts and interest of the Capri Acquisition EUR Senior Notes include the impact of changes in the exchange rate of the United States Dollar against the Euro as of June 29, 2024. (2) Interest on outstanding debt includes fixed interest expenses for unsecured notes. The estimated interest expenses associated with our term loan is based on the current interest rate as of June 29, 2024. Refer to Note 12, "Debt," for further information. (3) Mandatory transition tax payments represent our tax obligation incurred in connection with the deemed repatriation of previously deferred foreign earnings pursuant to the Tax Legislation. Refer to Note 15, "Income Taxes," for further information. We expect to fund these firm commitments with operating cash flows generated in the normal course of business and, if necessary, through availability under our credit facilities or other accessible sources of financing. Excluded from the above contractual obligations table is the non-current liability for unrecognized tax benefits of $134.8 million as of June 29, 2024, as we cannot make a reliable estimate of the period in which the liability will be settled, if ever. Besides the firm commitments noted above, the above table excludes other amounts included in current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at June 29, 2024 as these items will be paid within one year and certain long-term liabilities not requiring cash payments. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements In addition to the commitments included in the table above, we have outstanding letters of credit, surety bonds and bank guarantees totaling $28.4 million as of June 29, 2024, primarily serving to collateralize our obligation to third parties for duty, leases, insurance claims and materials used in product manufacturing. These letters of credit expire at various dates through calendar 2039. We do not maintain any other off-balance sheet arrangements, transactions, obligations or other relationships with unconsolidated entities that would be expected to have a material current or future effect on our consolidated financial statements. Refer to Note 13, "Commitments and Contingencies," for further information. 45 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the Company's financial statements. Actual results could differ from estimates in amounts that may be material to the financial statements. Predicting future events is inherently an imprecise activity and, as such, requires the use of judgment. Actual results could differ from estimates in amounts that may be material to the financial statements. The development and selection of the Company’s critical accounting policies and estimates are periodically reviewed with the Audit Committee. The accounting policies discussed below are considered critical because changes to certain judgments and assumptions inherent in these policies could affect the financial statements. For more information on the Company's accounting policies, please refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when the Company satisfies its performance obligations by transferring control of promised products or services to its customers, which may be at a point of time or over time. Control is transferred when the customer obtains the ability to direct the use of and obtain substantially all of the remaining benefits from the products or services. The amount of revenue recognized is the amount of consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled, including estimation of sale terms that may create variability in the consideration. Revenue subject to variability is constrained to an amount which will not result in a significant reversal in future periods when the contingency that creates variability is resolved. Retail store and concession shop-in-shop revenues are recognized at the point-of-sale, when the customer obtains physical possession of the products. Digital revenue from sales of products ordered through the Company’s e-commerce sites is recognized upon delivery and receipt of the shipment by its customers and includes shipping and handling charges paid by customers. Retail and digital revenues are recorded net of estimated returns, which are estimated by developing an expected value based on historical experience. Payment is due at the point of sale. The Company recognizes revenue within the wholesale business at the time title passes and risk of loss is transferred to customers, which is generally at the point of shipment of products but may occur upon receipt of the shipment by the customer in certain cases. Wholesale revenue is recorded net of estimates for returns, discounts, end-of-season markdowns, cooperative advertising allowances and other consideration provided to the customer. The Company's historical estimates of these variable amounts have not differed materially from actual results. The Company recognizes licensing revenue over time during the contract period in which licensees are granted access to the Company's trademarks. These arrangements require licensees to pay a sales-based royalty and may include a contractually guaranteed minimum royalty amount. Revenue for contractually guaranteed minimum royalty amounts is recognized ratably over the license year and any excess sales-based royalties are recognized as earned once the minimum royalty threshold is achieved. At June 29, 2024, a 10% change in the allowances for estimated uncollectible accounts, markdowns and returns would not have resulted in a material change in the Company's reserves and net sales. Inventories The Company holds inventory that is sold through retail and wholesale distribution channels, including e-commerce sites. Substantially all of the Company's inventories are comprised of finished goods and are reported at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Inventory costs include material, conversion costs, freight and duties and are primarily determined on a weighted-average cost basis. The Company reserves for inventory, including slow-moving and aged inventory, based on current product demand, expected future demand and historical experience. A decrease in product demand due to changing customer tastes, buying patterns or increased competition could impact the Company's evaluation of its inventory and additional reserves might be required. Estimates may differ from actual results due to the quantity, quality and mix of products in inventory, consumer and retailer preferences and market conditions. At June 29, 2024, a 10% change in the inventory reserve, would not have resulted in material change in inventory and cost of sales. 46 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Upon acquisition, the Company estimates and records the fair value of purchased intangible assets, which primarily consists of brands, customer relationships, right-of-use assets and order backlog. Goodwill and certain other intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives, including brand intangible assets, are not amortized, but are assessed for impairment at least annually. Finite-lived intangible assets are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives and, along with other long-lived assets as noted above, are evaluated for impairment periodically whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their related carrying values may not be fully recoverable. Estimates of fair value for finite-lived and indefinite-lived intangible assets are primarily determined using discounted cash flows and the multi-period excess earnings method, respectively, with consideration of market comparisons as appropriate. This approach uses significant estimates and assumptions, including projected future cash flows, discount rates and growth rates. The Company generally performs its annual goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment analysis using a quantitative approach. The quantitative goodwill impairment test identifies the existence of potential impairment by comparing the fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying value, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, the reporting unit's goodwill is considered not to be impaired. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The impairment charge recognized is limited to the amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. Determination of the fair value of a reporting unit and intangible asset is based on management's assessment, considering independent third-party appraisals when necessary. Furthermore, this determination is judgmental in nature and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, which may include projected future cash flows, discount rates, growth rates, and determination of appropriate market comparables and recent transactions. These estimates and assumptions could have a significant impact on whether or not an impairment charge is recognized and the amount of any such charge. The Company performs its annual impairment assessment of goodwill as well as brand intangibles at the beginning of the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. The Company determined that there was no impairment in fiscal 2024, fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022. Based on the annual assessment in fiscal 2024, the fair values of our Coach brand reporting units significantly exceeded their respective carrying values. The fair values of the Kate Spade brand reporting unit and indefinite-lived brand as of the fiscal 2024 testing date exceeded their carrying values by approximately 20% and 55%, respectively. Several factors could impact the Kate Spade brand's ability to achieve expected future cash flows, including the optimization of the store fleet productivity, the success of international expansion strategies, the impact of promotional activity, continued economic volatility and potential operational challenges related to the macroeconomic factors, the reception of new collections in all business channels and other initiatives aimed at increasing profitability of the business. Given the relatively small excess of fair value over carrying value as noted above, if profitability trends decline during fiscal 2025 from those that are expected, it is possible that an interim test, or our annual impairment test, could result in an impairment of these assets. Valuation of Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, such as property and equipment, are evaluated for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. In evaluating long-lived assets for recoverability, the Company uses its best estimate of future cash flows expected to result from the use of the related asset group and its eventual disposition. To the extent that estimated future undiscounted net cash flows attributable to the asset are less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the difference between the carrying value of such asset and its fair value, considering external market participant assumptions. In determining future cash flows, the Company takes various factors into account, including the effects of macroeconomic trends such as consumer spending, in-store capital investments, promotional cadence, the level of advertising and changes in merchandising strategy. Since the determination of future cash flows is an estimate of future performance, there may be future impairments in the event that future cash flows do not meet expectations. 47 Share-Based Compensation The Company recognizes the cost of equity awards to employees and the non-employee Directors based on the grant-date fair value of those awards. The grant-date fair values of share unit awards are based on the fair value of the Company's common stock on the date of grant. The grant-date fair value of stock option awards is determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and involves several assumptions, including the expected term of the option, expected volatility and dividend yield. The expected term of options represents the period of time that the options granted are expected to be outstanding and is based on historical experience. Expected volatility is based on historical volatility of the Company’s stock as well as the implied volatility from publicly traded options on the Company's stock. Dividend yield is based on the current expected annual dividend per share and the Company’s stock price. Changes in the assumptions used to determine the Black-Scholes value could result in significant changes in the Black-Scholes value. For stock options and share unit awards, the Company recognizes share-based compensation net of estimated forfeitures and revises the estimates in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from the estimates. The Company estimates the forfeiture rate based on historical experience as well as expected future behavior. The Company grants performance-based share awards to key executives, the vesting of which is subject to the executive’s continuing employment and the Company's or individual's achievement of certain performance goals. On a quarterly basis, the Company assesses actual performance versus the predetermined performance goals and adjusts the share-based compensation expense to reflect the relative performance achievement. Actual distributed shares are calculated upon conclusion of the service and performance periods, and include dividend equivalent shares. If the performance-based award incorporates a market condition, the grant-date fair value of such award is determined using a pricing model, such as a Monte Carlo Simulation. A hypothetical 10% change in our stock-based compensation expense would not have a material impact to our fiscal 2024 net income. Income Taxes The Company’s effective tax rate is based on pre-tax income, statutory tax rates, tax laws and regulations and tax planning strategies available in the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. The Company classifies interest and penalties on uncertain tax positions in the Provision for income taxes. The Company records net deferred tax assets to the extent it believes that it is more likely than not that these assets will be realized. In making such determination, the Company considers all available evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent and expected future results of operation. The Company reduces deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance if, based upon the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that some amount of deferred tax assets is not expected to be realized. The Company is not permanently reinvested with respect to earnings of a limited number of foreign entities and has recorded the tax consequences of remitting earnings from these entities. The Company is permanently reinvested with respect to all other earnings. The Company recognizes the impact of tax positions in the financial statements if those positions will more likely than not be sustained on audit, based on the technical merits of the position. Although the Company believes that the estimates and assumptions used are reasonable and legally supportable, the final determination of tax audits could be different than that which is reflected in historical tax provisions and recorded assets and liabilities. Tax authorities periodically audit the Company’s income tax returns, these tax authorities may take a contrary position that could result in a significant impact on the Company's results of operations. Significant management judgment is required in determining the effective tax rate, in evaluating tax positions and in determining the net realizable value of deferred tax assets. Refer to Note 15, “Income Taxes,” for further information. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 3, "Significant Accounting Policies," to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements for a description of certain recently adopted, issued or proposed accounting standards which may impact our consolidated financial statements in future reporting periods. 48