********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should consider carefully all of the information set forth or incorporated by reference in this document and, in particular, the following risk factors associated with the business of the Company and forward-looking information in this document. Please also see “Special Note on Forward-Looking Information” at the beginning of this report. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also have an adverse effect on us. If any of the risks below actually occur, our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition could suffer. Risks Related to Macroeconomic Conditions The Covid-19 pandemic and resulting adverse economic conditions may continue to have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The ongoing Covid-19 pandemic continues to impact a significant majority of the regions in which we operate, resulting in significant global business disruptions. The impacts of Covid-19 continue to materially adversely impact our operations, cash flow and liquidity. The virus has impacted all regions around the world, resulting in restrictions and shutdowns implemented by national, state, and local authorities. These requirements resulted in temporary closures of the majority of the Company's directly operated stores globally for some period of time to help reduce the spread of Covid-19 during fiscal 2020. Throughout fiscal years 2021 and 2022, the vast majority of the Company’s stores were opened and have continued to operate. However, some store locations have experienced temporary re-closures or operated under tighter restrictions in compliance with local government regulations. Many of the Company’s wholesale partners also experienced closure of their stores or operating restrictions during the fiscal year, as required by government orders. The Company’s performance in fiscal 2022 was adversely impacted as a result of infections due to variants of Covid-19 in certain regions, most notably in Greater China, which resulted in disruption in business performance including a decline in demand in the region. While the trends for Greater China started to improve at the end of fiscal 2022, the situation continues to be very volatile and infection rates and government restrictions may continue to persist. Covid-19 has also resulted in ongoing supply chain challenges, such as logistic constraints, the closure of certain third-party manufacturers and increased freight cost. The impact of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic on our business will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the ultimate duration, severity and sustained geographic resurgence of the virus, including the emergence of new variants and strains of the virus, and the success of actions to contain the virus and its variants, or treat its impact, such as the availability and acceptance of vaccines, among others. While the full magnitude of the effects on our business continues to be difficult to predict, the Covid-19 pandemic has and may continue to have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business may continue to be adversely impacted by several factors, including, but not limited to: • We source and manufacture our products on a global scale and we have and may continue to experience material temporary or long-term disruption in our supply chain, given the global reach of the Covid-19 pandemic. • Travel restrictions, closures or disruptions of business and facilities, including manufacturing facilities and raw material providers, unavailability of vaccines for our international employees or workers in our supply chain, or social, economic, political or labor instability in the affected areas may impact the operations of our raw material suppliers or manufacturing partners. This disruption to our supply chain has resulted and may continue to result in inventory not being available in a timely manner and/or during the appropriate season, and freight and other logistics costs, including increased carrier rates for ocean and air shipments, as the supply chain disruptions have caused us to increase our use of air freight with greater frequency than in the past, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. • The potential economic effects of the pandemic, including a possible recession or inflationary pressures, increased unemployment and decreased consumer credit availability, may result in lower consumer confidence and decreased disposable income and discretionary spending levels, which may lead to reduced sales of our products. Unfavorable economic conditions, fears of becoming ill and sustained travel restrictions may also reduce consumers’ willingness and ability to travel to major cities and vacation destinations in which the Company’s stores are located. Furthermore, reduced discretionary spending may result in an excess of inventory throughout the industry, which could lead to increased pressure on our gross margin in the near term if the Company has to increase promotional activity above its normal levels to sell through its existing product. • Social distancing measures and general consumer behaviors due to the Covid-19 pandemic may continue to impact mall and store traffic even as stores return to normal operations, which may have a further negative impact on our business. Furthermore, declines in traffic beyond our current expectations could result in additional impairment charges if expected future cash flows of the related asset group do not exceed the carrying value. 16 • We continue to sell products through our stores and through our e-commerce sites. The majority of our fulfillment centers remain open and operational through the date of this report; however, such fulfillment centers may be forced to close or limit operations due to governmental mandates, health and safety concerns, or illness or absence of a substantial number of distribution center employees. We may not be able to keep up with demand for our products because we have and may continue to experience delays in or increased costs for the shipment or delivery of our products due to capacity constraints, shipping delays or port congestion. Economic conditions, such as an economic recession, downturn, periods of inflation or uncertainty, could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and consumer purchases of luxury items. Our results can be impacted by a number of macroeconomic factors, including but not limited to: consumer confidence and spending levels, tax rates, levels of unemployment, consumer credit availability, raw materials costs, pandemics (such as the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic) and natural disasters, fuel and energy costs (including oil prices), global factory production, supply chain operations, commercial real estate market conditions, credit market conditions and the level of customer traffic in malls and shopping centers. The Covid-19 pandemic has severely impacted and will likely continue to impact many of these factors. Many of our products may be considered discretionary items for consumers. Demand for our products, and consumer spending in the premium handbag, footwear and accessories categories generally, is significantly impacted by trends in consumer confidence, general economic and business conditions, high levels of unemployment, periods of inflation, health pandemics (such as the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic), interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, the availability of consumer credit, and taxation. Consumer purchases of discretionary luxury items, such as the Company's products, tend to decline during recessionary periods or periods of sustained high unemployment, when disposable income is lower. Unfavorable economic conditions, as well as travel restrictions and potential changes in consumer behavior resulting from the Covid-19 pandemic, may also reduce consumers’ willingness and ability to travel to major cities and vacation destinations in which our stores are located. Our sensitivity to economic cycles and any related fluctuation in consumer demand may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Risks Related to our Business and our Industry We face risks associated with operating in international markets. We operate on a global basis, with approximately 37.6% of our net sales coming from operations outside of United States as of the end of fiscal year 2022. While geographic diversity helps to reduce the Company’s exposure to risks in any one country, we are subject to risks associated with international operations, including, but not limited to: • political or economic instability or changing macroeconomic conditions in our major markets, including the potential impact of (1) new policies that may be implemented by the U.S. or other jurisdictions, particularly with respect to tax and trade policies or (2) sanctions and related activities by the United States, European Union (“E.U.”) and others; • public health crises, such as pandemics and epidemic diseases (including the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic); • changes to the U.S.'s participation in, withdrawal out of, renegotiation of certain international trade agreements or other major trade related issues including the non-renewal of expiring favorable tariffs granted to developing countries, tariff quotas, and retaliatory tariffs, trade sanctions, new or onerous trade restrictions, embargoes and other stringent government controls; • changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies, which may adversely affect the retail prices of our products, result in decreased international consumer demand, or increase our supply costs in those markets, with a corresponding negative impact on our gross margin rates; • compliance with laws relating to foreign operations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the U.K. Bribery Act, and other global anti-corruption laws, which in general concern the bribery of foreign public officials, and other regulations and requirements; • changes in tourist shopping patterns, particularly that of the Chinese consumer and as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic; • natural and other disasters; • political, civil and social unrest, such as the ongoing crisis in Ukraine; and • changes in legal and regulatory requirements, including, but not limited to safeguard measures, anti-dumping duties, cargo restrictions to prevent terrorism, restrictions on the transfer of currency, climate change and other environmental legislation, product safety regulations or other charges or restrictions. 17 Our business is subject to the risks inherent in global sourcing activities. As a Company engaged in sourcing on a global scale, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including, but not limited to: • continued disruptions or delays in shipments whether due to port congestion, logistics carrier disruption, other shipping capacity constraints or other factors, which has and may continue to result in significantly increased inbound freight costs and increased in-transit times; • loss or disruption of key manufacturing or fulfillment sites or extended closure of such sites due to the Covid-19 pandemic or other unexpected factors; • imposition of additional duties, taxes and other charges or restrictions on imports or exports; • unavailability, or significant fluctuations in the cost, of raw materials; • compliance by us and our independent manufacturers and suppliers with labor laws and other foreign governmental regulations; • increases in the cost of labor, fuel (including volatility in the price of oil), travel and transportation; • compliance with our Global Business Integrity Program; • compliance by our independent manufacturers and suppliers with our Supplier Code of Conduct, social auditing procedures and requirements and other applicable compliance policies; • compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including U.S. laws regarding the identification and reporting on the use of “conflict minerals” sourced from the Democratic Republic of the Congo in the Company’s products, other laws and regulations regarding the sourcing of materials in the Company’s products, the FCPA, U.K. Bribery Act and other global anti-corruption laws, as applicable, and other U.S. and international regulations and requirements; • regulation or prohibition of the transaction of business with specific individuals or entities and their affiliates or goods manufactured in certain regions by any government or regulatory authority in the jurisdictions where we conduct business, such as the listing of a person or entity as a Specially Designated National or Blocked Person by the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control and the issuance of Withhold Release Orders by the U.S. Customs and Border Patrol; • inability to engage new independent manufacturers that meet the Company’s cost-effective sourcing model; • product quality issues; • political unrest, including the ongoing crisis in Ukraine, protests and other civil disruption; • public health crises, such as pandemic and epidemic diseases, and other unforeseen outbreaks; • natural disasters or other extreme weather events, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise; • acts of war or terrorism and other external factors over which we have no control. We are subject to labor laws governing relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions, and citizenship requirements. Compliance with these laws may lead to increased costs and operational complexity and may increase our exposure to governmental investigations or litigation. In addition, we require our independent manufacturers and suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, as well as our Supplier Code of Conduct and other compliance policies under our Global Business Integrity Program; however, we do not control these manufacturers or suppliers or their labor, environmental or other business practices. Copies of our Global Business Integrity Program documents, including our Global Operating Principles, Anti-Corruption Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct are available through our website, www.tapestry.com. The violation of labor, environmental or other laws by an independent manufacturer or supplier, or divergence of an independent manufacturer’s or supplier’s labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical or appropriate in the U.S., could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of our products, harm our trademarks or damage our reputation. In addition, if there is negative publicity regarding the production methods of any of our suppliers or manufacturers, even if unfounded or not specific to our supply chain, our reputation and sales could be adversely affected, we could be subject to legal liability, or could cause us to contract with alternative suppliers or manufacturing sources. The occurrence of any of these events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Our business may be materially impacted if our distribution and fulfillment centers face significant interruptions and operations. We are dependent on a limited number of fulfillment and sourcing centers. Our ability to meet the needs of our customers and our retail stores and e-commerce sites depends on the proper operation of these centers. If any of these centers were to shut down or otherwise become inoperable or inaccessible for any reason, including as a result of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, we could suffer a substantial loss of inventory and/or disruptions of deliveries to our retail and wholesale customers. Depending on the duration of these closures, our results may be materially impacted. While we have business continuity and contingency plans for our sourcing and fulfillment center sites, significant disruption of manufacturing or fulfillment for any of the above reasons could interrupt product supply, result in a substantial loss of inventory, increase our costs, disrupt deliveries to our customers and our retail stores, and, if not remedied in a timely manner, could have a material adverse impact on our business. Because our fulfillment centers include automated and computer controlled equipment, they are susceptible to risks including power interruptions, hardware and system failures, software viruses, and security breaches. In North America we maintain fulfillment centers in Jacksonville, Florida, and Westchester, Ohio, operated by Tapestry. Globally we utilize fulfillment centers in mainland China, the Netherlands, the U.K. and Spain, owned and operated by third-parties, allowing us to better manage the logistics in these regions while reducing costs. We also utilize local fulfillment centers, through third-parties, in Japan, parts of Greater China (mainland China, Hong Kong SAR, Macao SAR and Taiwan), South Korea, Singapore, Malaysia, Spain, the U.K., Canada, Australia, and starting in fiscal 2023 in Mexico. The warehousing of the Company's merchandise, store replenishment and processing direct-to-customer orders is handled by these centers and a prolonged disruption in any center’s operation could materially adversely affect our business and operations. In addition, increases in the Company’s e-commerce sales has required additional fulfillment and fulfillment capacity. Additionally in fiscal year 2022, the Company entered into a lease agreement for a multi-brand fulfillment facility to be built in Las Vegas, Nevada in order to increase capacity and improve fulfillment capabilities as the Company continues to focus on expanding its digital and e-commerce business. Any delay in the construction or our failure to execute our operational plans for this fulfillment center could result in the Company not being able to meet customer demand for its products and could materially adversely affect our business and operations. A decline in the volume of traffic to our stores could have a negative impact on our net sales. The success of our retail stores located within malls and shopping centers may be impacted by (1) closures, operating restrictions, store capacity restrictions and changes in consumer shopping behavior as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic; (2) the location of the store within the mall or shopping center; (3) surrounding tenants or vacancies; (4) increased competition in areas where malls or shopping centers are located; (5) the amount spent on advertising and promotion to attract consumers to the mall; and (6) a shift towards online shopping resulting in a decrease in mall traffic. Declines in consumer traffic could have a negative impact on our net sales and could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, declines in traffic could result in store impairment charges if expected future cash flows of the related asset group do not exceed the carrying value. The growth of our business depends on the successful execution of our growth strategies, including our global omni-channel expansion efforts and our ability to execute our digital and e-commerce priorities. Our growth depends on the continued success of existing products, as well as the successful design, introduction of new products and maintaining an appropriate rationalization of our assortment. Our ability to create new products and to sustain existing products is affected by whether we can successfully anticipate and respond to consumer preferences and fashion trends. See “ The success of our business depends on our ability to retain the value of our brands and to respond to changing fashion and retail trends in a timely manner.” The failure to develop and launch successful new products or to rationalize our assortment appropriately could hinder the growth of our business. Also, any delay in the development or launch of a new product could result in our company not being the first to bring product to market, which could compromise our competitive position. Our success and growth also depends on the continued development of our omni-channel presence for each of our brands globally, leaning into global digital opportunities for each brand, along with continued bricks and mortar expansion in select international regions, notably mainland China. With respect to international expansion, our brands may not be well-established or widely sold in some of these markets, and we may have limited experience operating directly or working with our partners there. In addition, some of these markets, either through bricks and mortar stores or digital channels, have different operational characteristics, including but not limited to employment and labor, privacy, transportation, logistics, real estate, environmental regulations and local reporting or legal requirements. Furthermore, consumer demand and behavior, as well as tastes and purchasing trends may differ in these countries, and as a result, sales of our product may not be successful, or the margins on those sales may not be in line with those we currently anticipate. Further, expanding in certain markets may have upfront investment costs that may not be accompanied by sufficient 19 revenues to achieve typical or expected operational and financial performance and therefore may be dilutive to our brands in the short-term. We may also have to compete for talent in international regions as we expand our omni-channel presence. Consequently, if our global omni-channel expansion plans are unsuccessful, or we are unable to retain and/or attract key personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially adversely affected. We have incorporated key strategies of our Acceleration Program, one of which is to Leverage Data and Lead with a Digital-First Mindset, including offering satisfying customer experiences across our e-commerce and social channels and meeting the needs of our customers who are engaging with our brands digitally. We aim to provide a seamless omni-channel experience to our customers regardless of whether they are shopping in stores or engaging with our brands through digital technology, such as computers, mobile phones, tablets or other devices. This requires investment in new technologies and reliance on third party digital partners, over which we may have limited control. Additionally, our digital business is subject to numerous risks that could adversely impact our results, including (i) a diversion of sales from our brand stores or wholesale customers, (ii) difficulty in recreating the in-store experience through digital channels, (iii) liability for online content, (iv) changing dynamics within the digital marketing environment and our ability to effectively market to consumers, (v) intense competition from online retailers, and (vi) the ability to provide timely delivery of e-commerce purchases, which is dependent on the capacity and operations of our owned and third party operated fulfillment facilities. See “ Our business is subject to the risks inherent in global sourcing activities” for additional risks related to our distribution and fulfillment networks. If we are unable to effectively execute our e-commerce and digital strategies and provide reliable experiences for our customers across all channels, our reputation and ability to compete with other brands could suffer, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends, in part, on attracting, developing and retaining qualified employees, including key personnel. Our business and future success depends heavily on attracting, developing and retaining qualified employees, including our senior management team. Competition in our industry to attract and retain these employees is intense and is influenced by our ability to offer competitive compensation and benefits, employee morale, our reputation, recruitment by other employers, perceived internal opportunities, non-competition and non-solicitation agreements and macro unemployment rates. We depend on the guidance of our senior management team and other key employees who have significant experience and expertise in our industry and our operations. In recent years, we have experienced numerous changes to our senior leadership team. There can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or that we will be able to identify and attract suitable successors for these individuals. The loss of one or more of our key personnel or the direct or indirect consequences of results thereof, or any negative public perception with respect to these individuals or the loss of these individuals, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We do not maintain key-person or similar life insurance policies on any of senior management team or other key personnel. We must also attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified retail and fulfillment center employees. Historically, competition for talent in these positions has been intense and turnover is generally high, both of which have been exacerbated by the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. If we are unable to attract and retain such employees with the necessary skills and experience, we may not achieve our objectives and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Additionally, changes to our office environments, the adoption of new work models, and our requirements and/or expectations about when or how often certain employees work on-site or remotely may not meet the expectations of our employees. As businesses increasingly operate remotely, traditional geographic competition for talent may change in ways that we cannot presently predict. If our employment proposition is not perceived as favorable compared to other companies, it could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain our employees. The successful incorporation of our Acceleration Program is key to the long-term success of our business. The Company’s Acceleration Program focused on how to better meet the needs of each of its brands' unique customers by (i) Sharpening our Focus on the Customer (ii) Leveraging Data and Leading with a Digital-First Mindset and (iii) Transforming into a Leaner and More Responsive Organization. The Company does not expect to incur further expenses related to the Acceleration Program in Fiscal 2023. The Company believes the successful incorporation of these priorities will fuel desire for the Coach, Kate Spade and Stuart Weitzman brands, driving accelerated revenue growth, higher gross margins and substantial operating leverage across Tapestry’s portfolio. The Acceleration Program reflects: (i) actions to streamline the Company's organization; (ii) select store closures as the Company optimizes its fleet (including store closure costs incurred as the Company exits certain regions in which it currently operates); and (iii) professional fees and compensation costs incurred as a result of the development and execution of the Company's comprehensive strategic initiatives aimed at increasing profitability. The Company believes that long-term growth and increased profitability can be realized through its strategic growth efforts over time. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to sustain such efforts in accordance with our plans, that such 20 efforts will result in the intended or otherwise desirable outcomes or that such efforts, even if successfully sustained, will be effective in achieving long-term growth or increased profitability. Refer to Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 5, "Restructuring Activities," for further information regarding the Acceleration Program. Further, potential changes in our executive leadership team may have an adverse effect on our ability to implement or to achieve favorable results under the Acceleration Program and/or result in further changes to our strategy. If our incorporation of the initiatives under our Acceleration Program falls short, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially adversely affected. Significant competition in our industry could adversely affect our business. We face intense competition in the product lines and markets in which we operate. Our competitors are European and American luxury brands, as well as private label retailers, including some of the Company's wholesale customers. Competition is based on a number of factors, including, without limitation, the following: • our competitors may develop new products or product categories that are more popular with our customers; • anticipating and responding in a timely fashion to changing consumer demands and shopping preferences, including the ever-increasing shift to digital brand engagement, social media communications, and online and cross-channel shopping; • maintaining strong brand recognition, loyalty, and a reputation for quality, including through digital brand engagement and online and social media presence; • recruiting and retaining key talent; • developing and producing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors, and styles that appeal to consumers of varying age group; • competitively pricing our products and creating an acceptable value proposition for consumers, including price increases to mitigate inflationary pressures while simultaneously balancing the risk of lower consumer demand in response to any such price increases; • providing strong and effective marketing support in several diverse demographic markets, including through digital and social media platforms in order to stay better connected to consumers; • providing attractive, reliable, secure, and user-friendly digital commerce sites; • sourcing sustainable raw materials at cost-effective prices; • ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with third party suppliers and retailers; • protecting our trademarks and design patents; and • the ability to withstand prolonged periods of adverse economic conditions or business disruptions. A failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing consumer preferences and technology and product trends could adversely affect our growth and profitability. Our business may be subject to increased costs due to excess inventories and a decline in profitability as a result of increasing pressure on margins if we misjudge the demand for our products. Our industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition and a highly promotional environment, fragmentation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products, and changes in consumer spending patterns. If we misjudge the market for our products or demand for our products are impacted by other factors, such as inflationary pressures, political instability or the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, we may be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for other products. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, forced to rely on donation, markdowns, promotional sales or other write-offs, to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory, which may negatively impact our gross margin, overall profitability and efficacy of our brands. Increases in our costs, such as raw materials, labor or freight could negatively impact our gross margin. Our costs for raw materials are affected by, among other things, weather, customer demand, speculation on the commodities market, the relative valuations and fluctuations of the currencies of producer versus customer countries and other factors that are generally unpredictable and beyond our control. Any of these factors may be exacerbated by global climate change. In addition, ongoing impacts of the pandemic, political instability, trade relations, sanctions, price inflationary pressure, or other geopolitical or economic conditions could cause raw material costs to increase and have an adverse effect on our future margins. Labor costs at many of our manufacturers have been increasing significantly and, as the middle class in developing countries continues to 21 grow, it is unlikely that such cost pressure will abate. Furthermore, the cost of transportation has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly if oil prices continue to rise. We have also experienced increased freight and other logistics costs, including increased carrier rates for ocean and air shipments, in addition, the supply chain disruptions have caused us to increase our use of air freight with greater frequency than in the past. We may not be able to offset such increases in raw materials, labor or transportation costs through pricing measures or other means. The success of our business depends on our ability to retain the value of our brands and to respond to changing fashion and retail trends in a timely manner. Tapestry, Inc. is a New York-based house of accessible luxury lifestyle brands. Our global house of brands unites the magic of Coach, kate spade new york and Stuart Weitzman. Each of our brands are unique and independent, while sharing a commitment to innovation and authenticity defined by distinctive products and differentiated customer experiences across channels and geographies. Any misstep in product quality or design, executive leadership, customer service, marketing, unfavorable publicity or excessive product discounting could negatively affect the image of our brands with our customers. Furthermore, the product lines we have historically marketed and those that we plan to market in the future are becoming increasingly subject to rapidly changing fashion trends and consumer preferences, including the increasing shift to digital brand engagement and social media communication. If we do not anticipate and respond promptly to changing customer preferences and fashion trends in the design, production, and styling of our products, as well as create compelling marketing campaigns that appeal to our customers, our sales and results of operations may be negatively impacted. The shift towards digital engagement has become increasingly important, with increased use of social media platforms by our brand representatives, influencers and our employees. Actions taken by our partners on social media that do not show our brands in a manner consistent with our desired image or that are damaging to such partner’s reputation, whether or not through our brand social media platforms, could harm our brand reputation and materially impact our business. Our success also depends in part on our and our executive leadership team's ability to execute on our plans and strategies. Even if our products, marketing campaigns and retail environments do meet changing customer preferences and/or stay ahead of changing fashion trends, our brand image could become tarnished or undesirable in the minds of our customers or target markets, which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As we outsource functions, we will become more dependent on the third parties performing these functions. As part of our long-term strategy, we look for opportunities to cost effectively enhance capability of business services. While we believe we conduct appropriate due diligence before entering into agreements with these third parties, the failure of any of these third parties to provide the expected services, provide them on a timely basis or to provide them at the prices we expect could disrupt or harm our business. Any significant interruption in the operations of these service providers, including as a result of changes in social, political, and economic conditions, including those resulting from military conflicts or other hostilities, that could result in the disruption of trade from the countries in which our manufacturers or suppliers are located, over which we have no control, could also have an adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, we may be unable to provide these services or implement substitute arrangements on a timely and cost-effective basis on terms favorable to us. Our wholesale business could suffer as a result of consolidations, liquidations, restructurings and other ownership changes in the wholesale industry. Our wholesale business comprised approximately 11% of total net sales for fiscal 2022. The retail industry, including wholesale customers, has experienced financial difficulty leading to consolidations, reorganizations, restructuring, bankruptcies and ownership changes. In addition, the Covid-19 pandemic has resulted in reduced operations or the closure, temporarily or permanently, of many of our wholesale partners. This may continue and could further decrease the number of, or concentrate the ownership of, wholesale stores that carry our licensees’ products. Furthermore, a decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores or any other significant customer, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease or eliminate the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing partners could result in an adverse effect on the sales and profitability within this channel. Additionally, certain of our wholesale customers, particularly those located in the U.S., have in the past been highly promotional and have aggressively marked down their merchandise and may do so again in the future, which could negatively impact our brands or could affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Acquisitions may not be successful in achieving intended benefits, cost savings and synergies and may disrupt current operations. One component of our growth strategy historically has been acquisitions. Acquisitions are not currently contemplated in the Company's capital allocation priorities, however, our management team may in the future evaluate and consider other strategic investments or acquisitions. These involve various inherent risks and the benefits, cost savings and synergies sought may not be realized. 22 The integration process of any newly acquired company may be complex, costly and time-consuming. The potential difficulties of integrating the operations of an acquired business and realizing our expectations for an acquisition, including the benefits that may be realized, include, among other things: • failure of the business to perform as planned following the acquisition or achieve anticipated revenue or profitability targets; • delays, unexpected costs or difficulties in completing the integration of acquired companies or assets; • higher than expected costs, lower than expected cost savings or synergies and/or a need to allocate resources to manage unexpected operating difficulties; • difficulties assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired companies into our operations; • diversion of the attention and resources of management or other disruptions to current operations; • the impact on our or an acquired business’ internal controls and compliance with the requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; • unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations; • unanticipated changes in the combined business due to potential divestitures or other requirements imposed by antitrust regulators; • retaining key customers, suppliers and employees; • retaining and obtaining required regulatory approvals, licenses and permits; • operating risks inherent in the acquired business and our business; • lower than anticipated demand for product offerings by us or our licensees; • assumption of liabilities not identified in due diligence; and • other unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. Our failure to successfully complete the integration of any acquired business and any adverse consequences associated with future acquisition activities, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Completed acquisitions may result in additional goodwill and/or an increase in other intangible assets on our Balance Sheet. We are required annually, or as facts and circumstances exist, to assess goodwill and other intangible assets to determine if impairment has occurred. If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill or other intangible assets and the implied fair value of the goodwill or the fair value of other intangible assets in the period the determination is made. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any potential future impairment of assets. Should the value of goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results are subject to seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of the Company's common stock. The Company's results are typically affected by seasonal trends. We have historically realized, and expect to continue to realize, higher sales and operating income in the second quarter of our fiscal year. Business underperformance in the Company's second fiscal quarter would have a material adverse effect on its full year operating results and result in higher inventories. In addition, fluctuations in net sales, operating income and operating cash flows of the Company in any fiscal quarter may be affected by the timing of wholesale shipments and other events affecting retail sales, including adverse weather conditions or other macroeconomic events, including the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. We rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our licenses and the failure to maintain such partners could harm our business. Our brands currently have multi-year agreements with licensing partners for certain products. In the future, we may enter into additional licensing arrangements. The risks associated with our own products also apply to our licensed products, as do unique risks stemming from problems that our licensing partners may experience, including risks associated with each licensing partner’s ability to obtain capital, manage its labor relations, maintain relationships with its suppliers, manage its credit and bankruptcy risks, and maintain customer relationships. While we maintain significant control over the products produced for us by our licensing partners, any of the foregoing risks, or the inability of any of our licensing partners to execute on the expected design and quality of the licensed products or otherwise exercise operational and financial control over its business, may result in loss of revenue and competitive harm to our operations in the licensed product categories. Further, while we believe that we 23 could replace our existing licensing partners if required, any delay in doing so could adversely affect our revenues and harm our business. We also may decide not to renew our agreements with our licensing partners and bring certain categories in-house. We may face unexpected difficulties or costs in connection with any action to bring currently licensed categories in-house. We are subject to risks associated with leasing retail space subject to long-term and non-cancelable leases. We may be unable to renew leases at the end of their terms. If we close a leased retail space, we remain obligated under the applicable lease. We do not own any of our retail store locations. We lease the majority of our stores under non-cancelable leases, many of which have historically had initial terms ranging from five and ten years, often with renewal options. We believe that the majority of the leases we enter into in the future will likely be non-cancelable. Generally, our leases are “net” leases, which require us to pay our proportionate share of the cost of insurance, taxes, maintenance and utilities. We generally cannot cancel these leases at our option. In certain cases, as we have done in the past, we may determine that it is no longer economical to operate a retail store subject to a lease or we may seek to generally downsize, consolidate, reposition, relocate or close some of our real estate locations. In such cases, we may be required to negotiate a lease exit with the applicable landlord or remain obligated under the applicable lease for, among other things, payment of the base rent for the balance of the lease term. In some instances, we may be unable to close an underperforming retail store due to continuous operation clauses in our lease agreements. In addition, as each of our leases expire, we may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close retail stores in desirable locations. Our inability to secure desirable retail space or favorable lease terms could impact our ability to grow. Likewise, our obligation to continue making lease payments in respect of leases for closed retail spaces could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, due to the volatile economic environment, it may be difficult to determine the fair market value of real estate properties when we are deciding whether to enter into leases or renew expiring leases. This may impact our ability to manage the profitability of our store locations, or cause impairments of our lease right of use assets if market values decline, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Information Security and Technology A delay, disruption in, failure of, or inability to upgrade our information technology systems precisely and efficiently could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and cash flow. We rely heavily on various information and other business systems to manage our operations, including management of our supply chain, point-of-sale processing in our brands’ stores, our online businesses associated with each brand and various other processes. We are continually evaluating and implementing upgrades and changes to our systems. In addition, from time to time, we implement new systems. Implementing new systems carries substantial risk, including failure to operate as designed, failure to properly integrate with other systems, potential loss of confidential and personal information, cost overruns, implementation delays and disruption of operations. Furthermore, failure of our computer systems due to inadequate system capacity, computer viruses, human error, changes in programming, security and personal data breaches, system upgrades or migration of these services, as well as employee and consumer privacy concerns and new global government regulations, individually or in accumulation, could have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and cash flow. Computer system disruption and cyber security threats, including a personal data or security breach, could damage our relationships with our customers, harm our reputation, expose us to litigation and adversely affect our business. We depend on digital technologies for the successful operation of our business, including corporate email communications to and from employees, customers, stores and vendors, the design, manufacture and distribution of our finished goods, digital and local marketing efforts, data analytics, collection, use and retention of customer data, employee, vendor and partner information, the processing of credit card transactions, online e-commerce activities and our interaction with the public in the social media space. Due to persistent Covid-19 risks, our company decided to implement a hybrid working model. Recently many of our corporate employees and independent contractors returned to offices several days a week but continued to work remotely the other days. Continued remote working due to the Covid-19 pandemic has increased our dependence on digital technology during this period. The possibility of a successful cyber-attack on any one or all of these systems is a serious threat. The retail industry, in particular, has been the target of many cyber-attacks. As part of our business model, we collect, retain, and transmit confidential information and personal data over public networks. In addition to our own databases, we use third party service providers to store, process and transmit this information on our behalf. Although we contractually require these service providers to implement and use reasonable and adequate security measures and data protection, we cannot control third parties and cannot guarantee that a personal data or security breach will not occur in the future either at their location or within their systems. We also store all designs, goods specifications, projected sales and distribution plans for our finished products 24 digitally. We have enterprise class and industry comparable security measures in place to protect both our physical facilities and digital systems from attacks. Despite these efforts, however, we may be vulnerable to targeted or random cyber-attacks, personal data or security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer malware, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other similar events. Further, like other companies in the retail industry, during the ordinary course of business, we and our vendors have in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, cyber-attacks of varying degrees and types, including phishing, and other attempts to breach, or gain unauthorized access to, our systems. To date, these attacks have not had a material impact on our operations, but we cannot provide assurance that cyber-attacks will not have a material impact in the future. Awareness and sensitivity to personal data breaches and cyber security threats by consumers, employees and lawmakers is at an all-time high. Any misappropriation of confidential or personal information gathered, stored or used by us, be it intentional or accidental, could have a material impact on the operation of our business, including severely damaging our reputation and our relationships with our customers, employees, vendors and investors. We have been incurring and expect that we will continue to incur significant costs implementing additional security measures to protect against new or enhanced data security or privacy threats, or to comply with current and new international, federal and state laws governing the unauthorized disclosure or exfiltration of confidential and personal information which are continuously being enacted and proposed such as the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in the E.U. the UK GDPR, the American Data Privacy and Protection Act, the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), the Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act (VCDPA), the Colorado Privacy Act (CPA) and the Utah Consumer Privacy Act, and the Connecticut Data Privacy Act (CTDPA) in the U.S.A., as well as increased cyber security and privacy protection costs such as organizational changes, Covid-19 employee and visitor health checks, copies of vaccination cards, deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees, engaging outside counsel, third party experts and consultants. We may also experience loss of revenues resulting from unauthorized use of proprietary information including our intellectual property. Lastly, we could face sizable fines, significant breach containment and notification costs to supervisory authorities and the affected data subjects, and increased litigation and customer claims, as a result of cyber security or personal data breaches. While we carry cyber liability insurance, such insurance may not cover us with respect to any or all claims or costs associated with such a breach. In addition, we have e-commerce sites in certain countries throughout the world, including the U.S., Canada, Japan, mainland China, several throughout Europe, Australia and South Korea and have plans for additional e-commerce sites in other parts of the world. Additionally, Tapestry has informational websites in various countries. Given the robust nature of our e-commerce presence and digital strategy, it is imperative that we and our e-commerce partners maintain uninterrupted operation of our: (i) computer hardware, (ii) software systems, (iii) customer databases, and (iv) ability to email or otherwise keep in contact with our current and potential customers. Despite our preventative efforts, our systems are vulnerable from time-to-time to damage, disruption or interruption from, among other things, physical damage, natural disasters, inadequate system capacity, system issues, security and personal data breaches, email blocking lists, computer malware or power outages. Any material disruptions in our e-commerce presence or information technology systems and applications could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Environmental, Social, and Governance Issues The risks associated with climate change and other environmental impacts and increased focus by stakeholders on climate change, could negatively affect our business and operations. Our business is susceptible to risks associated with climate change, including through disruption to our supply chain, potentially impacting the production and distribution of our products including availability and pricing of raw materials, as well as shipping disruptions and/or higher freight costs. Climate change can lead to physical and transition risks impacting our business. The physical risks result from climatic events, such as wildfires, storms, and floods, whereas transition risks result from policy action taken to transition the economy off of fossil fuels. Increased frequency and/or intensity of extreme weather events (such as storms and floods) due to climate change could also lead to more frequent store and fulfillment center closures, adversely impacting retail traffic and/or consumer's disposable income levels or spending habits on discretionary items, or otherwise disrupt business operations in the communities in which we operate, any of which could result in lost sales or higher costs. There is also increased focus from our stakeholders, including consumers, employees and investors, on climate change issues. Many countries in which we and our suppliers operate have begun to enact new legislation and regulations in an attempt to mitigate the potential impacts of climate change, which could result in higher sourcing, operational, and compliance-related costs for the Company. Such proposed measures include expanded disclosure requirements regarding greenhouse gas emissions and other climate-related information, as well as independent auditors providing some level of attestation to the accuracy of such disclosures. Inconsistency of legislation and regulations among jurisdictions may also affect our compliance costs with such laws and regulations. An assessment of the potential impact of future climate change legislation, regulations or industry standards, as well as any international treaties and accords, will be fraught with uncertainty given the wide scope of potential 25 regulatory change in the countries in which we operate. Any failure on our part to comply with such climate change-related regulations could lead to adverse consumer actions and/or investment decisions by investors, as well as expose us to legal risk. Increased scrutiny from investors and others regarding our corporate social responsibility initiatives, including environmental, social, governance and other matters of significance relating to sustainability, could result in additional costs or risks and adversely impact our reputation. Stakeholders, including consumers, employees and investors, have increasingly focused on corporate responsibility practices of companies. Although we have announced our corporate responsibility strategy and 2025 Corporate Responsibility Goals, there can be no assurance that our stakeholders will agree with our strategy or that we will be successful in achieving our goals. Failure to implement our strategy or achieve our goals on a timely basis, or at all, could damage our reputation, causing our investors or consumers to lose confidence in our Company and brands, and negatively impact our operations. In addition, our brand is susceptible to risks associated with changing consumer attitudes regarding social and political issues and consumer perceptions of our position on these issues. Any corporate responsibility report that we publish or other sustainability disclosure we make may include our policies and practices on a variety of social and ethical matters, including corporate governance, environmental compliance, employee health and safety practices, human capital management, product quality, supply chain management and workforce inclusion and diversity. It is possible that stakeholders may not be satisfied with our ESG practices or the speed of our adoption of these practices. We could also incur additional costs and require additional resources to monitor, report and comply with various ESG practices and various legal, legislative and regulatory requirements. Also, our failure, or perceived failure, to meet the standards included in any sustainability disclosure could negatively impact our reputation, employee retention and the willingness of our customers and suppliers to do business with us. Risks Related to Global Economic Conditions and Legal and Regulatory Matters We face risks associated with potential changes to international trade agreements and the imposition of additional duties on importing our products. Most of our imported products are subject to duties, indirect taxes, quotas and non-tariff trade barriers that may limit the quantity of products that we may import into the U.S. and other countries or may impact the cost of such products. To maximize opportunities, we rely on free trade agreements and other supply chain initiatives and, as a result, we are subject to government regulations and restrictions with respect to our cross-border activity. For example, we have historically received benefits from duty-free imports on certain products from certain countries pursuant to the U.S. Generalized System of Preferences ("GSP") program. The GSP program expired on December 31, 2020, resulting in additional duties that have negatively impacting gross margin. Additionally, we are subject to government regulations relating to importation activities, including related to U.S. Customs and Border Protection ("CBP") enforcement actions. The imposition of taxes, duties and quotas, the withdrawal from or material modification to trade agreements, and/or if CBP detains shipments of our goods pursuant to a withhold release order could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Since fiscal 2019, the U.S. and China have both imposed tariffs on the importation of certain product categories into the respective country, with limited progress in negotiations to reduce or remove the tariffs. However, while the U.S. has participated in multi-national negotiations on trade agreements and duty rates, there continues to be a possibility of increases in tariffs on goods imported into the U.S. from other countries, which could in turn adversely affect the profitability for these products and have an adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations as a result. Fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility of our financial results and stock price. We are subject to income taxes in many jurisdictions. We record tax expense based on our estimates of taxable income and required reserves for uncertain tax positions in multiple tax jurisdictions. At any one time, multiple tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. The results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may result in a settlement which differs from our original estimate. As a result, we expect that throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly effective tax rates as events occur and exposures are evaluated. In addition, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings. Further, proposed tax changes that may be enacted in the future could impact our current or future tax structure and effective tax rates. Over the past year there has been significant discussion with regards to tax legislation by both the Biden Administration and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (“OECD”). On August 16, 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 was signed into law, with tax provisions primarily focused on implementing a 15% minimum tax on global adjusted financial statement income and a 1% excise tax on share repurchases. The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 will become effective beginning in fiscal 2024. Given its recent pronouncement, it is unclear at this time what, if any, impact the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 will have on the Company's tax rate and financial results. We will continue to evaluate its impact as further information becomes available. 26 Our business is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We monitor our global foreign currency exposure. In order to minimize the impact on earnings related to foreign currency rate movements, we hedge certain cross currency intercompany inventory transactions and foreign currency balance sheet exposures, as well as the Company’s cross currency intercompany loan portfolio. We cannot ensure, however, that these hedges will fully offset the impact of foreign currency rate movements. Additionally, our international subsidiaries primarily use local currencies as the functional currency and translate their financial results from the local currency to U.S. dollars. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against these subsidiaries’ foreign currencies, the translation of their foreign currency denominated transactions may decrease consolidated net sales and profitability. Our continued international expansion will increase our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. The majority of the Company's purchases and sales involving international parties, excluding international consumer sales, are denominated in U.S. dollars. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property and curb the sale of counterfeit merchandise could injure our brands and negatively affect sales. We believe our trademarks, copyrights, patents, and other intellectual property rights are extremely important to our success and our competitive position. We devote significant resources to the registration and protection of our trademarks and to anti-counterfeiting efforts worldwide. Despite our efforts, counterfeiting still occurs and if we are unsuccessful in challenging a third-party’s rights related to trademark, copyright, or patent this could adversely affect our future sales, financial condition, and results of operations. We pursue entities involved in the trafficking and sale of counterfeit merchandise through legal action or other appropriate measures. We cannot guarantee that the actions we have taken to curb counterfeiting and protect our intellectual property will be adequate to protect the brand and prevent counterfeiting in the future. Our trademark applications may fail to result in registered trademarks or provide the scope of coverage sought. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights are often met with defenses and counterclaims attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. Unplanned increases in legal and investigative fees and other costs associated with defending our intellectual property rights could result in higher operating expenses. Finally, many countries’ laws do not protect intellectual property rights to the same degree as U.S. laws. Risks Related to our Indebtedness We have incurred a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could restrict our ability to engage in additional transactions or incur additional indebtedness. As of July 2, 2022, our consolidated indebtedness was approximately $1.70 billion. In fiscal year 2022, the Company issued $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.050% senior unsecured notes due March 15, 2032 at 99.705% of par (the "2032 Senior Notes") and completed a partial cash tender offer of the outstanding aggregate of its $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.250% senior unsecured notes due April 1, 2025 at 99.445% of par (the "2025 Senior Notes") and its $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.125% senior unsecured notes due July 15, 2027 at 99.858% of par (the "2027 Senior Notes", together with the 2032 Senior Notes and 2025 Senior Notes, the "Senior Notes"). In addition, the Company financed and replaced the $900.0 Million Revolving Credit Facility by entering into a new credit facility that (i) includes an increased revolving credit facility (the "$1.25 Billion Revolving Credit Facility") from $900.0 million to $1.25 billion, (ii) includes an unsecured $500.0 million Term Loan (the "Term Loan") and (iii) redefines certain terms within the existing Revolving Credit Facility. The unsecured $500 million Term Loan was utilized to satisfy the Company’s remaining obligation under its $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.000% senior unsecured notes due July 15, 2022 at 99.505% of par (the "2022 Senior Notes"). Additionally, the borrowings may be used to finance our working capital needs, capital expenditures, permitted investments, share purchases, dividends and other general corporate purposes. This substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences to our business including making it more difficult to satisfy our debt obligations, increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate and restricting us from pursuing certain business opportunities. In addition, the terms of our $1.25 Billion Revolving Credit Facility contain affirmative and negative covenants, including a maximum net leverage ratio of 4.0 to 1.0, as well as limitations on our ability to incur debt, grant liens, engage in mergers and dispose of assets. Refer to Note 12, "Debt", for a summary of these terms and additional information on the terms of our $1.25 Billion Revolving Credit Facility, Term Loan and outstanding Senior Notes. The consequences and limitations under our $1.25 Billion Revolving Credit Facility and our other outstanding indebtedness could impede our ability to engage in future business opportunities or strategic acquisitions. In addition, a prolonged disruption in our business may impact our ability to satisfy the leverage ratio covenant under our $1.25 Billion Revolving Credit Facility. Non-compliance with these terms would constitute an event of default under our $1.25 Billion Revolving Credit Facility, which may result in acceleration of payment to the lenders. In the event of an acceleration of payment to the lenders, this would result in a cross default of the Company’s Senior Notes, causing the Company’s outstanding borrowings to also become due and payable on demand. 27 Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt obligations and to fund planned capital expenditures depends on our ability to generate cash from our operations. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control, including the financial impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on our business. We cannot guarantee that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from our operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to make payments of our debt, fund other liquidity needs and make planned capital expenditures. In addition, our ability to access the credit and capital markets in the future as a source of funding, and the borrowing costs associated with such financing, is dependent upon market conditions and our credit rating and outlook. As a result of having operations outside of the U.S., we are also exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Substantial changes in foreign currency exchange rates could cause our sales and profitability to be negatively impacted. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock Our stock price may periodically fluctuate based on the accuracy of our earnings guidance or other forward-looking statements regarding our financial performance, including our ability to return value to investors. Our business and long-range planning process is designed to maximize our long-term strength, growth, and profitability, and not to achieve an earnings target in any particular fiscal quarter. We believe that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of the Company and our stockholders. At the same time, however, we recognize that, when possible, it is helpful to provide investors with guidance as to our forecast of net sales, operating income, net interest expense, earnings per diluted share and other financial metrics or projections. We did not provide detailed guidance in our earnings reports for the second half of fiscal year 2020 and fiscal year 2021 due to uncertainty surrounding the financial impact of Covid-19 on our business. We resumed providing guidance for fiscal year 2022 and while we generally expect to provide updates to our financial guidance when we report our results each fiscal quarter, we do not have any responsibility to provide guidance going forward or to update any of our forward-looking statements at such times or otherwise. In addition, any longer-term guidance that we provide is based on goals that we believe, at the time guidance is given, are reasonably attainable for growth and performance over a number of years. However, such long-range targets are more difficult to predict than our current quarter and fiscal year expectations. If, or when, we announce actual results that differ from those that have been predicted by us, outside investment analysts, or others, our stock price could be adversely affected. Investors who rely on these predictions when making investment decisions with respect to our securities do so at their own risk. We take no responsibility for any losses suffered as a result of such changes in our stock price. We periodically return value to investors through payment of quarterly dividends and common stock repurchases. On March 26, 2020, we announced we were suspending our quarterly dividend payment, effective beginning the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, and stock repurchase program due to the impact of Covid-19 pandemic. Starting in the first quarter of fiscal 2022, the Company’s Board of Directors approved the reinstatement of the Company's shareholder return program declaring a quarterly cash dividend of $0.25 per common share for an annual dividend rate of $1.00 per share, or approximately $260 million returned to shareholders in fiscal 2022 (the “Shareholder Return Program”). Additionally, during fiscal 2022 the Company repurchased 42.0 million shares of common stock for $1.60 billion. The Company also intends to repurchase approximately $700.0 million worth of stock in fiscal 2023, all of which is remaining under its current authorization. Investors may have an expectation that we will continue to pay our quarterly dividend at a certain time and at certain levels and / or repurchase shares available under our common stock repurchase program. The market price of our securities could be adversely affected if our cash dividend rate or common stock repurchase activity differs from investors’ expectations. Refer to “ If we are unable to pay quarterly dividends or conduct stock repurchases at intended levels, our reputation and stock price may be negatively impacted. ” for additional discussion of our quarterly dividend. If we are unable to pay quarterly dividends or conduct stock repurchases at intended levels, our reputation and stock price may be negatively impacted. On March 26, 2020, the Company announced that, due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, Tapestry’s quarterly dividend, beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020, along with the stock repurchase program would be suspended. In the first quarter of fiscal 2022, the Company’s Board of Directors approved the reinstatement of the Company's Shareholder Return Program. The dividend program and the stock repurchase program each require the use of a portion of our cash flow. Our ability to pay dividends and conduct stock repurchases will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future. This ability may be subject to certain economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. Our Board of Directors (“Board”) may, at its discretion, decrease or entirely discontinue these programs at any time. Any failure to pay dividends or conduct stock repurchases, or conduct either program at expected levels, after we have announced our intention to do so may negatively impact our reputation, investor confidence in us and negatively impact our stock price. 28 Provisions in the Company's charter, bylaws and Maryland law may delay or prevent an acquisition of the Company by a third party. The Company's charter, bylaws and Maryland law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company without the consent of our Board. The Company's charter permits a majority of its entire Board, without stockholder approval, to amend the charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that the Company has the authority to issue. In addition, the Company's Board may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares without stockholder approval. Although the Company's Board has no intention to do so at the present time, it could establish a class or series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for the Company's common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of the Company's stockholders. The Company's bylaws provide that nominations of persons for election to the Company's Board and the proposal of business to be considered at an annual meeting of stockholders may be made only in the notice of the meeting, by the Company's Board or by a stockholder who is a stockholder of record as of the record date set by the Company's Board for purposes of determining stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, at the time of the giving of the notice by the stockholder pursuant to the Company's bylaws and at the time of the meeting, who is entitled to vote at the meeting in the election of each individual so nominated or on any such other business and has complied with the advance notice procedures of the Company's bylaws. Also, under Maryland law, business combinations, including mergers, consolidations, share exchanges, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, asset transfers or issuances or reclassifications of equity securities, between the Company and any interested stockholder, generally defined as any person who beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the Company's common stock, or any affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for a five-year period, beginning on the most recent date such person became an interested stockholder. After this period, a combination of this type must be approved by two super-majority stockholder votes, unless common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined under Maryland law, for their shares in the form of cash or other consideration in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder for its shares. The statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by our Board prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. The Company’s charter provides that, except as may be provided by our Board in setting the terms of any class or series of preferred stock, any vacancy on our Board may be filled only by a majority of the remaining directors, even if the remaining directors do not constitute a quorum. The Company’s charter further provides that a director may be removed only by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of directors. This provision, when coupled with the exclusive power of our Board to fill vacant directorships, may preclude stockholders from removing incumbent directors except by a substantial affirmative vote and filling the vacancies created by such removal with their own nominees. Our bylaws designate the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland as the sole and exclusive forum for certain actions, including derivative actions, which could limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with the Company and its directors, officers, other employees, or the Company's stockholders and may discourage lawsuits with respect to such claims. Unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the sole and exclusive forum for (a) any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of the Company, (b) any action asserting a claim of breach of any duty owed by any director or officer or other employee of the Company to the Company or to the stockholders of the Company, (c) any action asserting a claim against the Company or any director or officer or other employee of the Company arising pursuant to any provision of the Maryland General Corporation Law, the charter or the bylaws of the Company, or (d) any action asserting a claim against the Company or any director or officer or other employee of the Company that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland (or, if that Court does not have jurisdiction, the United States District court for the District of Maryland, Baltimore Division). This exclusive forum provision is intended to apply to claims arising under Maryland state law and would not apply to claims brought pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any other claim for which the federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction. Although we believe the exclusive forum provision benefits us by providing increased consistency in the application of Maryland law for the specified types of actions and proceedings, this provision may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with the Company and its directors, officers, or other employees and may discourage lawsuits with respect to such claims.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion of the Company's financial condition and results of operations should be read together with the Company’s consolidated financial statements and notes to those financial statements included elsewhere in this document. When used herein, the terms “the Company,” "Tapestry," “we,” “us” and “our” refer to Tapestry, Inc., including consolidated subsidiaries. References to "Coach," "Stuart Weitzman," "Kate Spade" or "kate spade new york" refer only to the referenced brand. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW The fiscal year ended July 2, 2022 was a 52-week period, July 3, 2021 was a 53-week period, and June 27, 2020 was a 52-week period. Tapestry, Inc. is a leading New York-based house of accessible luxury accessories and lifestyle brands. Our global house of brands unites the magic of Coach, kate spade new york and Stuart Weitzman. Each of our brands are unique and independent, while sharing a commitment to innovation and authenticity defined by distinctive products and differentiated customer experiences across channels and geographies. We use our collective strengths to move our customers and empower our communities, to make the fashion industry more sustainable, and to build a company that’s equitable, inclusive, and diverse. Individually, our brands are iconic. Together, we can stretch what’s possible. The Company has three reportable segments: • Coach - Includes global sales of Coach products to customers through Coach operated stores, including e-commerce sites and concession shop-in-shops, and sales to wholesale customers and through independent third party distributors. • Kate Spade - Includes global sales primarily of kate spade new york brand products to customers through Kate Spade operated stores, including e-commerce sites and concession shop-in-shops, sales to wholesale customers and through independent third party distributors. • Stuart Weitzman - Includes global sales of Stuart Weitzman brand products primarily through Stuart Weitzman operated stores, including e-commerce sites, sales to wholesale customers and through numerous independent third party distributors. Each of our brands is unique and independent, while sharing a commitment to innovation and authenticity defined by distinctive products and differentiated customer experiences across channels and geographies. Our success does not depend solely on the performance of a single channel, geographic area or brand. Acceleration Program Starting in fiscal 2020, the Company embarked on a strategic growth plan after undergoing a review of its business under the Acceleration Program, resulting in certain costs to date reflecting: (i) actions to streamline the Company's organization; (ii) select store closures as the Company optimizes its fleet (including store closure costs incurred as the Company exits certain regions in which it currently operates); and (iii) professional fees and compensation costs incurred as a result of the development and execution of the Company's comprehensive strategic initiatives aimed at increasing profitability. The guiding principle under the Acceleration Program is to better meet the needs of each of its brands' unique customers by: • Sharpening our Focus on the Consumer: Operating with a clearly defined purpose and strategy for each brand and an unwavering focus on the consumer at the core of everything we do. • Leveraging Data and Leading with a Digital-First Mindset: Building significant data and analytics capabilities to drive decision-making and increase efficiency; Offering immersive customer experiences across our e-commerce and social channels to meet the needs of consumers who are increasingly utilizing digital platforms to engage with brands; Rethinking the role of stores with an intent to optimize our fleet. • Transforming into a Leaner and More Responsive Organization: Moving with greater agility, simplifying internal processes and empowering teams to act quickly to meet the rapidly changing needs of the consumer. Throughout fiscal 2022, the Company made meaningful progress under its Acceleration Program by sharpening the Company's focus on the consumer, leveraging data to lead with a digital-first mindset and transforming into a leaner and more responsive organization: • Recruited approximately 7.7 million new customers across channels in North America, representing a 10% increase versus prior year, with growth in both stores and online. 33 • Maintained a consumer-centric lens and fostered emotional connections with customers, resulting in higher average spend per customer, increased retention rates and the continued reactivation of lapsed customers across brands. • Delivered global average unit retail ("AUR") gains at Coach, Kate Spade, and Stuart Weitzman , reflecting brand heat and pricing power, the increasing traction of their product offerings, and select price increases, as well as continued benefits from structural changes to lessen promotional activity. • Advanced Digital capabilities through significant investments in the channel, including in talent, to improve the customer experience and drive conversion; achieved $2 billion in Digital revenue in the fiscal year, representing 30% of total sales. • Realized gross run-rate savings of approximately $300 million in fiscal 2022 , which continues to fund investments in brand-building activities. The Company does not expect to incur further expenses related to the Acceleration Program in fiscal 2023. Refer to Note 5, "Restructuring Activities," and the "GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation," herein, for further information. Recent Developments Covid-19 Pandemic The disruptions related to Covid-19 have materially adversely impacted our operations, cash flow, and liquidity. The virus has impacted all regions around the world, resulting in restrictions and shutdowns implemented by national, state, and local authorities. These requirements resulted in closures of our directly operated stores globally, as well as our wholesale and licensing partners, causing a significant reduction in sales starting in the third quarter of fiscal 2020. While the vast majority of the Company's stores and locations of our wholesale and licensing partners have reopened, certain have experienced temporary re-closures or are operating under tighter restrictions in compliance with local government regulations. The Company's performance in fiscal 2022 was adversely impacted as a result of infections due to variants of Covid-19 in certain regions, most notably in Greater China, which resulted in disruptions in business performance including a decline in demand in the region. While the trends in Greater China started to improve at the end of fiscal 2022, the situation continues to be very volatile and infection rates and government restrictions may continue to persist. Furthermore, Covid-19 has and may continue to cause disruptions in the Company’s supply chain within our third-party manufacturers and logistics providers. During the first quarter of fiscal 2022, certain of the Company’s third-party manufacturers, primarily located in Vietnam, experienced ongoing and longer-than-expected government mandated restrictions, which resulted in a significant decrease in production capacity for these third-party manufacturers. In response, the Company took deliberate actions such as shifting production to other countries, adjusting its merchandising strategies, where possible, and increasing the use of air freight to expedite delivery. Based on these actions, and the improved production levels since the first quarter, the Company has been able to meet anticipated levels of demand. The Company has been experiencing other global logistics challenges, such as delays as a result of port congestion, vessel availability, container shortages for imported products and rising freight costs. To mitigate delays, the Company strategically used air freight with greater frequency than in the past, primarily in the second and third fiscal quarter of 2022. Due to these logistical challenges, during fiscal 2022, the Company recognized within Cost of sales $178.5 million of incremental freight costs compared to fiscal 2021, in order to maintain product flow to meet consumer demand. There is still uncertainty associated with the Covid-19 pandemic, and challenges are expected to persist into fiscal 2023, including the possibility of other effects on the business. We will continue to monitor the rapidly evolving situation pertaining to the Covid-19 outbreak, including guidance from international and domestic authorities and adjust our operating plan as needed. Refer to Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" herein. The Company continues to take strategic actions in response to the current environment. The Company remains committed to driving SG&A savings, including actions taken under the Acceleration Program. The Company will continue to consider near-term exigencies and the long-term financial health of the business as clear steps are taken to mitigate the consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic. Covid-19 Related Impairments There were no Covid-19 related impairments recorded in fiscal 2022. During fiscal 2021, the Company recorded $45.8 million of impairment charges related to lease right-of-use assets, which were primarily driven by the continued impacts of Covid-19. Refer to Note 11, "Fair Value Measurements" for further information. In addition, in fiscal 2021, the Company recognized a reversal of raw material reserves of $8.1 million, which was established in fiscal 2020 as a result of the projected impact of Covid-19. 34 Crisis in Ukraine In the second half of fiscal 2022, a humanitarian crisis unfolded in Ukraine, which has created significant economic uncertainty in the region. The Company does not have directly operated stores in Russia or Ukraine and has a minimal distributor and wholesale business which was less than 0.1% of the Company’s total Net sales for fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021. Starting in the third quarter of fiscal 2022 the Company paused all wholesale shipments to Russia and Ukraine. The Company's total business in Europe represented less than 5% of fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021 total Net sales. Current Trends and Outlook The environment in which we operate is subject to a number of different factors driving global consumer spending. Consumer preferences, macroeconomic conditions, foreign currency fluctuations and geopolitical events continue to impact overall levels of consumer travel and spending on discretionary items, with inconsistent patterns across channels and geographies. The outbreak of a novel strain of Covid-19 continues to impact a significant majority of the regions in which we operate, resulting in significant global business disruptions. The widespread impact of Covid-19 resulted in temporary closures of directly operated stores globally, as well as at our wholesale and licensing partners starting in fiscal 2020. Since then, certain directly operated stores and the stores of our wholesale and licensing partners have experienced temporary re-closures or are operating under tighter restrictions in compliance with local government regulation. The Company's performance in fiscal 2022 was adversely impacted as a result of infections due to variants of Covid-19 in certain regions, most notably in Greater China, which resulted in disruptions in business performance including a decline in demand in the region. Furthermore, as discussed in "Recent Developments", Covid-19 has also resulted in ongoing supply chain challenges, such as logistic constraints, the closure of certain third-party manufacturers and increased freight costs. We continue to monitor the latest developments regarding the pandemic and have made certain assumptions about the pandemic for purposes of our business and operating results, including assumptions regarding the duration, severity and global macroeconomic impacts of the pandemic. However, the full extent of the impact of Covid-19 on our business and operating results will depend largely on future events outside of our control including the ultimate duration, severity and geographic resurgence of the virus and the success of actions to contain the virus, including variants of the novel strain, or treat its impact, among others. Several organizations that monitor the world’s economy, including the International Monetary Fund, continue to forecast growth in the global economy. However, some of these organizations have recently revised the forecast downward since the third quarter of fiscal 2022 primarily to reflect a higher-than-anticipated slowdown in Greater China, reflective of Covid-19 outbreaks and lockdown, and further negative economic impacts due to the crisis in Ukraine. Inflation is expected to remain elevated for longer than in previous forecasts and concerns regarding an oncoming recession have increased in recent months. Certain markets around the world have been faced with labor shortages, which have not impacted the Company's operations to date. If these trends continue or worsen, it could potentially affect the Company's ability to attract and retain employees for its retail and fulfillment locations in the future. Furthermore, currency volatility, political instability and potential changes to trade agreements or duty rates may contribute to a worsening of the macroeconomic environment or adversely impact our business. Since fiscal 2019, the U.S. and China have both imposed tariffs on the importation of certain product categories into the respective country, with limited progress in negotiations to reduce or remove the tariffs. Additionally, the Company has historically benefited from duty-free imports on certain products from certain countries pursuant to the U.S. Generalized System of Preferences (“GSP”) program. The GSP program expired in the third quarter of fiscal 2021, resulting in additional duties that have negatively impacting gross profit. Over the past year there has been significant discussion with regards to tax legislation by both the Biden Administration and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (“OECD”). On August 16, 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 was signed into law, with tax provisions primarily focused on implementing a 15% minimum tax on global adjusted financial statement income and a 1% excise tax on share repurchases. The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 will become effective beginning in fiscal 2024. Given its recent pronouncement, it is unclear at this time what, if any, impact the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 will have on the Company's tax rate and financial results. We will continue to evaluate its impact as further information becomes available. We will continue to monitor these trends and evaluate and adjust our operating strategies and cost management opportunities to mitigate the related impact on our results of operations, while remaining focused on the long-term growth of our business and protecting the value of our brands. Furthermore, refer to Part I, Item 1 - "Business" for additional discussion on our expected store openings and closures within each of our segments. For a detailed discussion of significant risk factors that have the potential to cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations, refer to Part I, Item 1A - "Risk Factors". 35 FISCAL 2022 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2021 The following table summarizes results of operations for fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021. All percentages shown in the tables below and the related discussion that follows have been calculated using unrounded numbers. NM - Not meaningful GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation The Company’s reported results are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). The reported results during fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021 reflect certain items which affect the comparability of our results, as noted in the following tables. Refer to "Non-GAAP Measures" herein for further discussion on the Non-GAAP measures. 36 Fiscal 2022 Items (1) Adjustments within Gross profit are recorded within Cost of sales. In fiscal 2022 the Company incurred charges as follows: • Debt Extinguishment - Debt extinguishment charges relate to the premiums, amortization and fees associated with the $500 million cash tender of the Company's 2027 Senior Notes and 2025 Senior Notes in the second quarter of fiscal 2022. Refer to Note 12, "Debt," for further information. • Acceleration Program - Total charges incurred under the Acceleration Program are primarily share-based compensation and professional fees incurred as a result of the development and execution of the Company's comprehensive strategic initiative. Refer to the "Executive Overview" herein and Note 5, "Restructuring Activities," for further information. These actions taken together increased the Company's SG&A expenses by $42.8 million, increased Loss on extinguishment of debt by $53.7 million and decreased Provision for income taxes by $16.3 million, negatively impacting net income by $80.2 million, or $0.30 per diluted share. 37 Fiscal 2021 Items (1) Adjustments within Gross profit are recorded within Cost of sales. In fiscal 2021 the Company incurred adjustments as follows: • CARES Act Tax Impact - Total amount primarily relates to tax benefits, most notably as a result of the NOL carryback claim. • Acceleration Program - Total charges incurred under the Acceleration Program are primarily professional fees incurred as a result of the development and execution of the Company's comprehensive strategic initiatives, share-based compensation, as well as actions to streamline the Company's organization, which include severance. Refer to the "Executive Overview" herein and Note 5, "Restructuring Activities," for further information. • Impairment - Total adjustments are primarily due to impairment charges on lease right-of use ("ROU") assets, as well as a reversal of raw material reserves which was established in fiscal 2020 as a result of the projected impact of Covid-19. Refer to the "Executive Overview" herein and Note 11, "Fair Value Measurements," for further information. These actions taken together increased the Company's SG&A expenses by $135.4 million, decreased Cost of sales by $8.1 million and Provision for income taxes by $120.4 million, negatively impacting net income by $6.9 million, or $0.02 per diluted share. 38 Tapestry, Inc. Summary - Fiscal 2022 Currency Fluctuation Effects The change in net sales and gross margin in fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 has been presented both including and excluding currency fluctuation effects. Net Sales The Company has provided comparisons to certain fiscal year 2019 results, which the Company believes is useful to investors and others in evaluating the Company’s results, due to the significant impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the Company’s operations and financial results, starting in fiscal year 2020. Net sales in fiscal 2022 increased 16.3% or $938.2 million to $6.68 billion. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, net sales increased by 16.8% or $964.5 million. Included in net sales of $5.75 billion in fiscal 2021 is the favorable impact of the 53rd week, which resulted in incremental net revenues of $92.7 million. • Coach Net Sales increased 15.7% or $668.2 million to $4.92 billion in fiscal 2022. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, net sales increased 16.2% or $691.0 million. The following discussion is presented excluding the favorable impact of the 53rd week to fiscal 2021 net sales of $67.7 million and the impact of foreign currency. The increase is primarily attributed to a net increase of $656.1 million in net retail sales driven by higher e-commerce in North America and global store sales with the exception of a decrease in store sales in Greater China due to Covid-19 related disruptions. This increase in net sales was also partially attributed to a $101.5 million increase in wholesale sales. • Kate Spade Net Sales increased 19.5% or $235.5 million to $1.45 billion in fiscal 2022. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, net sales increased 20.1% or $242.9 million. The following discussion is presented excluding the favorable impact of the 53rd week to fiscal 2021 net sales of $21.7 million and the impact of foreign currency. The increase is primarily due to a net increase of $221.3 million in net retail sales driven by higher store and e-commerce sales in North America and store sales in Europe partially offset by a decrease in store sales in Greater China due to Covid-19 related disruptions. This increase in net sales was also partially attributed to a $47.9 million increase in wholesale sales. • Stuart Weitzman Net Sales increased by 12.2% or $34.5 million to $317.7 million in fiscal 2022. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, net sales increased 10.8% or $30.7 million. The following discussion is presented excluding the favorable impact of the 53rd week to fiscal 2021 net sales of $3.3 million and the impact of foreign currency. The increase in net sales was primarily attributed to a $27.6 million increase in wholesale sales. This increase in net sales was also attributed to a $6.4 million increase in retail sales, primarily driven by higher e-commerce and store sales in North America, partially offset by a decrease in store sales in Greater China due to Covid-19 related disruptions. 39 Gross Profit Gross profit increased 13.9% or $568.5 million to $4.65 billion in fiscal 2022 from $4.08 billion in fiscal 2021. Gross margin for fiscal 2022 was 69.6% as compared to 71.0% in fiscal 2021. Excluding items affecting comparability of a reduction of expense of $8.1 million in fiscal 2021 as discussed in the "GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation" herein, gross profit increased 14.2% or $576.6 million to $4.65 billion from $4.07 billion in fiscal 2021. Excluding items affecting comparability, gross margin decreased 130 basis points to 69.6% compared to 70.9% in fiscal 2021 and was not materially impacted by foreign currency. The Company includes inbound product-related transportation costs from our service providers within Cost of sales. The Company includes certain transportation-related costs due to our distribution network in SG&A expenses rather than in Cost of sales; for this reason, our gross margins may not be comparable to that of entities that include all costs related to their distribution network in Cost of sales. The Company incurred incremental freight costs in fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 in order to maintain product flow to meet consumer demand. Refer to "Recent Developments," herein, for further information. • Coach Gross Profit increased 12.9% or $404.8 million to $3.55 billion in fiscal 2022 from $3.15 billion in fiscal 2021. Gross margin decreased 180 basis points to 72.2% in fiscal 2022 as compared to 74.0% in fiscal 2021. Excluding items affecting comparability of a reduction of expense of $8.1 million in fiscal 2021, Coach gross profit increased 13.1% or $412.9 million to $3.55 billion from $3.14 billion in fiscal 2021. Excluding items affecting comparability, gross margin decreased 170 basis points to 72.2% from 73.9% in fiscal 2021 and was not materially impacted by foreign currency. This decrease in gross margin was primarily attributed to higher inbound freight costs. Unfavorable geography and product mix were more than offset by reduced promotional activity and stronger-than-anticipated sell-throughs. • Kate Spade Gross Profit increased 18.7% or $143.6 million to $912.0 million in fiscal 2022 from $768.4 million in fiscal 2021. Gross margin decreased 40 basis points to 63.1% in fiscal 2022 from 63.5% in fiscal 2021. Kate Spade gross margin was not materially impacted by foreign currency. This decrease in gross margin was primarily attributed to higher inbound freight costs. Unfavorable channel and geography mix and higher duties were more than offset by reduced promotional activity, favorable product mix and pricing actions, as well as stronger-than-anticipated sell-throughs. • Stuart Weitzman Gross Profit increased 12.2% or $20.1 million to $184.6 million in fiscal 2022 from $164.5 million in fiscal 2021. Gross margin remained flat at 58.1% in fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021. On a constant currency basis, gross margin increased 120 basis points. This increase in gross margin is primarily due to reduced promotional activity and favorable product mix and pricing actions offset by unfavorable geography and channel mix. 40 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses SG&A expenses increased 11.6% or $360.7 million to $3.47 billion in fiscal 2022 as compared to $3.11 billion in fiscal 2021. As a percentage of net sales, SG&A expenses decreased to 52.0% during fiscal 2022 as compared to 54.2% during fiscal 2021. Excluding items affecting comparability of $42.8 million in fiscal 2022 and $135.4 million in fiscal 2021, SG&A expenses increased 15.2% or $453.3 million to $3.43 billion from $2.98 billion in fiscal 2021; and SG&A expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased to 51.3% in fiscal 2022 from 51.8% in fiscal 2021. • Coach SG&A Expenses increased 13.2% or $243.0 million to $2.08 billion in fiscal 2022 as compared to $1.84 billion in fiscal 2021. As a percentage of net sales, SG&A expenses decreased to 42.3% in fiscal 2022 as compared to 43.2% in fiscal 2021. Excluding items affecting comparability of $6.7 million and $42.3 million in fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021, respectively, SG&A expenses increased 15.5% or $278.6 million to $2.07 billion in fiscal 2022 from $1.79 billion in fiscal 2021. SG&A expenses as a percentage of sales decreased to 42.1% in fiscal 2022 from 42.2% in fiscal 2021. This increase in SG&A expenses is primarily due to higher marketing spend, most notably in digital, increased compensations costs, increased variable distribution and selling costs and a decrease in Covid-19 related wage subsidies and rent concessions. • Kate Spade SG&A Expenses increased 14.3% or $94.7 million to $754.6 million in fiscal 2022 as compared to $659.9 million in fiscal 2021. As a percentage of net sales, SG&A expenses decreased to 52.2% during fiscal 2022 as compared to 54.5% in fiscal 2021. Excluding items affecting comparability of $5.9 million and $23.7 million in fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021, respectively, SG&A expenses increased 17.7% or $112.5 million to $748.7 million in fiscal 2022 compared to $636.2 million in fiscal 2021; and SG&A expenses as a percentage of sales decreased to 51.8% in fiscal 2022 from 52.6% in fiscal 2021. This increase is due to higher marketing spend, most notably in digital, increased compensation costs and an increase in variable distribution and selling costs. • Stuart Weitzman SG&A Expenses increased 5.6% or $9.7 million to $182.8 million in fiscal 2022 as compared to $173.1 million in fiscal 2021. As a percentage of net sales, SG&A expenses decreased to 57.5% during fiscal 2022 as compared to 61.1% in fiscal 2021. Excluding items affecting comparability of $3.6 million in fiscal 2022 and $3.6 million in fiscal 2021, SG&A expenses increased 5.7% or $9.7 million to $179.2 million in fiscal 2022 from $169.5 million in fiscal 2021; and SG&A expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased to 56.4% in fiscal 2022 from 59.9% in fiscal 2021. This increase is primarily due to a decrease in Covid-19 related rent concessions and higher selling costs. • Corporate expenses, which are included within SG&A expenses discussed above but are not directly attributable to a reportable segment, increased 3.0% or $13.3 million to $457.3 million in fiscal 2022 as compared to $444.0 million in fiscal 2021. Excluding items affecting comparability of $26.6 million and $65.8 million in fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021, respectively, SG&A expenses increased 13.9% or $52.5 million to $430.7 million in fiscal 2022 as compared to $378.2 million in fiscal 2021. This increase in SG&A expenses is primarily due to higher compensation costs. Additionally in fiscal 2021, the Company recognized one-time gains as a result of the sale of our corporate office in Hong Kong SAR, China and on the deferred purchase price of the Kate Spade joint venture. The Company also made an endowment of the Tapestry foundation in fiscal 2021. 41 Operating Income (Loss) Operating income increased $207.8 million to $1.18 billion during fiscal 2022 as compared to $968.0 million in fiscal 2021. Operating margin was 17.6% in fiscal 2022 as compared to 16.8% in fiscal 2021. Excluding items affecting comparability of $42.8 million in fiscal 2022 and $127.3 million in fiscal 2021, operating income increased $123.3 million to $1.22 billion from $1.10 billion in fiscal 2021; and operating margin was 18.2% in fiscal 2022 as compared to 19.1% in fiscal 2021. Within operating income in fiscal 2021 of $1.10 billion, which excludes items affecting comparability, is $30.0 million from the favorable impact of the 53rd week. • Coach Operating Income increased $161.8 million to $1.47 billion in fiscal 2022, resulting in an operating margin of 29.9%, as compared to $1.31 billion and 30.9%, respectively in fiscal 2021. Excluding items affecting comparability, Coach operating income increased $134.3 million to $1.48 billion from $1.35 billion in fiscal 2021; and operating margin was 30.1% in fiscal 2022 as compared to 31.7% in fiscal 2021. This increase in operating income is due to an increase in gross profit, partially offset by higher SG&A expenses and the favorable impact of the 53rd week in fiscal 2021 of $28.6 million. • Kate Spade Operating Income increased $48.9 million to $157.4 million in fiscal 2022, resulting in an operating margin of 10.9%, as compared to 108.5 million and 9.0%, respectively in fiscal 2021. Excluding items affecting comparability, Kate Spade operating income increased $31.1 million to $163.3 million from $132.2 million in fiscal 2021; and operating margin was 11.3% in fiscal 2022 as compared to 10.9% in fiscal 2021. This increase in operating income is due to an increase in gross profit, partially offset by higher SG&A expenses and the favorable impact of the 53rd week in fiscal 2021 of $4.7 million. • Stuart Weitzman Operating Income increased $10.4 million to $1.8 million in fiscal 2022, resulting in an operating margin of 0.6%, as compared to an operating loss of $8.6 million in fiscal 2021 and operating margin of (3.1)%. Excluding items affecting comparability, Stuart Weitzman operating loss decreased $10.4 million to an operating income of $5.4 million from an operating loss of $5.0 million in fiscal 2021; and operating margin was 1.7% in fiscal 2022 as compared to (1.8)% in fiscal 2021. This decrease in operating loss is due to an increase in gross profit, partially offset by higher SG&A expenses and the favorable impact of the 53rd week in fiscal 2021 of $0.2 million. Loss on Extinguishment of Debt In the second quarter of fiscal 2022, the Company early tendered $500 million in aggregate of the Company’s 2027 Senior Notes and 2025 Senior Notes. As a result, the Company incurred a loss on extinguishment of debt of $53.7 million in fiscal 2022, primarily related to the premiums, amortization and fees associated with the partial tender. Interest Expense, net Net interest expense decreased 17.7% or $12.7 million to $58.7 million in fiscal 2022 as compared to $71.4 million in fiscal 2021. This decrease in Interest expense, net is due to higher interest income and lower bond interest expense on senior notes. Other Expense (Income) Other expense increased $17.1 million to $16.4 million in fiscal 2022 as compared to an income of $0.7 million in fiscal 2021. This increase in other expense is related to an increase in foreign exchange losses. Provision for Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 18.2% in fiscal 2022 as compared to 7.0% in fiscal 2021. Excluding items affecting comparability, the effective tax rate was 18.1% in fiscal 2022 as compared to 17.9% in fiscal 2021. The increase in our effective tax rate was primarily attributable to geographic mix of earnings. 42 Net Income (Loss) Net income increased $22.1 million to a net income of $856.3 million in fiscal 2022 as compared to a net income of $834.2 million in fiscal 2021. Excluding items affecting comparability, net income increased $95.4 million to $936.5 million in fiscal 2022 from $841.1 million in fiscal 2021. This increase was primarily due to higher operating income, partially offset by an increase in the provision for income taxes. Net Income (Loss) per Share Net income per diluted share was $3.17 in fiscal 2022 as compared to net income per diluted share of $2.95 in fiscal 2021. Excluding items affecting comparability, net income per diluted share increased $0.50 to $3.47 in fiscal 2022 from $2.97 in fiscal 2021, primarily due to higher net income and a decrease in shares outstanding. The impact of the 53rd week in fiscal 2021 contributed approximately $0.09 to net income per diluted share. FISCAL 2021 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2020 The comparison of fiscal 2021 to 2020 has been omitted from this Form 10-K, but can be referenced in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 3, 2021, filed on August 19, 2021. NON-GAAP MEASURES The Company’s reported results are presented in accordance with GAAP. The reported Gross profit, SG&A expenses, Operating income, Provision for income taxes, Net income and Earnings per diluted share in fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021 and the reported Loss on extinguishment of debt in fiscal 2022 reflect certain items, including the impact of Debt Extinguishment costs in fiscal 2022, Acceleration Program costs in fiscal 2022 and 2021, and the CARES Act Tax Impact and Impairment costs in fiscal 2021. As a supplement to the Company's reported results, these metrics are also reported on a non-GAAP basis to exclude the impact of these items, along with a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measures. Furthermore, the Company has disclosed the impact of the 53rd week in fiscal 2021 on net sales, operating income and earnings per diluted share results. The Company has historically reported comparable store sales, which reflects sales performance at stores that have been open for at least 12 months, and includes sales from e-commerce sites. The Company excludes new stores, including newly acquired locations, from the comparable store base for the first twelve months of operation. The Company excludes closed stores from the calculation. Comparable store sales are not adjusted for store expansions. Due to extensive full and partial store closures resulting from the Covid-19 pandemic, comparable store sales are not reported for fiscal year ended July 2, 2022 as the Company does not believe this metric is currently meaningful to the readers of its financial statements for this period. These non-GAAP performance measures were used by management to conduct and evaluate its business during its regular review of operating results for the periods affected. Management and the Company’s Board utilized these non-GAAP measures to make decisions about the uses of Company resources, analyze performance between periods, develop internal projections and measure management performance. The Company’s internal management reporting excluded these items. In addition, the Human Resources Committee of the Company’s Board uses these non-GAAP measures when setting and assessing achievement of incentive compensation goals. The Company operates on a global basis and reports financial results in U.S. dollars in accordance with GAAP. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can affect the amounts reported by the Company in U.S. dollars with respect to its foreign revenues and profit. Accordingly, certain material increases and decreases in operating results for the Company and its segments have been presented both including and excluding currency fluctuation effects. These effects occur from translating foreign-denominated amounts into U.S. dollars and comparing to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Constant currency information compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period-over-period. The Company calculates constant currency revenue results by translating current period revenue in local currency using the prior year period's currency conversion rate. We believe these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors and others in evaluating the Company’s ongoing operating and financial results in a manner that is consistent with management’s evaluation of business performance and understanding how such results compare with the Company’s historical performance. Additionally, we believe presenting certain increases and decreases in constant currency provides a framework for assessing the performance of the Company’s business outside the United States and helps investors and analysts understand the effect of significant year-over-year currency fluctuations. We believe excluding these items assists investors and others in developing expectations of future performance. 43 By providing the non-GAAP measures, as a supplement to GAAP information, we believe we are enhancing investors’ understanding of our business and our results of operations. The non-GAAP financial measures are limited in their usefulness and should be considered in addition to, and not in lieu of, GAAP financial measures. Further, these non-GAAP measures may be unique to the Company, as they may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. For a detailed discussion on these non-GAAP measures, see Item 7. "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations". 44 FINANCIAL CONDITION Cash Flows - Fiscal 2022 Compared to Fiscal 2021 The Company’s cash and cash equivalents decreased by $1.22 billion in fiscal 2022 compared to an increase of $581.4 million in fiscal 2021, as discussed below. Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $470.5 million primarily due to changes in operating assets and liabilities of $597.1 million, partially offset by the loss on extinguishment of debt of $53.7 million, the impact of non-cash charges of $50.8 million and higher net income of $22.1 million. The $597.1 million change in our operating asset and liability balances was primarily driven by: • Inventories were a use of cash of $311.7 million in fiscal 2022 as compared to a source of cash of $32.2 million in fiscal 2021, primarily driven by higher receipts, increased in-transit levels due to longer lead times and increased inbound freight costs compared to prior year. • Accounts payable were a source of cash of $86.4 million in fiscal 2022 as compared to a source of cash of $307.3 million in fiscal 2021, primarily due to the extension of payment terms with certain vendors in fiscal 2021 and higher inventory in-transit in fiscal 2022. • Other assets were a use of cash of $20.2 million in fiscal 2022 as compared to a use of cash of $223.1 million in fiscal 2021, primarily attributed to income tax receivables including the NOL carryback claim under the CARES Act filed in fiscal 2021 and the timing of payments and other refunds in the U.S. • Accrued liabilities were a use of cash of $16.1 million in fiscal 2022 as compared to a source of cash of $140.3 million in fiscal 2021, primarily attributed to the Annual Incentive Plan payment as the Company did not pay out during fiscal 2021 (for performance during fiscal year 2020) offset by increased distribution costs driven by higher sales and inbound freight. Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities Net cash used in investing activities was $253.6 million in fiscal 2022 compared to a use of cash of $91.0 million in fiscal 2021, resulting in a $162.6 million increase in net cash used in investing activities. The $253.6 million use of cash in fiscal 2022 is primarily due to purchases of investments of $540.4 million and capital expenditures of $93.9 million, partially offset by proceeds from maturities and sales of investments of $380.7 million. The $91.0 million use of cash in fiscal 2021 is primarily due to capital expenditures of $116.0 million. This use of cash was partially offset by net cash proceeds from the sales of building of $23.9 million. Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities Net cash used in financing activities was $1.78 billion in fiscal 2022 as compared to a use of cash of $666.0 million in fiscal 2021, resulting in a $1.11 billion increase in net cash used in financing activities. The $1.78 billion use of cash in fiscal 2022 was primarily due to repurchase of common stock of $1.60 billion, repayment of debt of $900.0 million, payment of dividends of $264.4 million and the payment of debt extinguishment costs of $50.7 million, partially offset by proceeds from debt, net of discount of $998.5 million. The $666.0 million use of cash in fiscal 2021 was primarily due to repayments on the Revolving Credit Facility of $700.0 million, partially offset by proceeds from share based awards of $61.2 million. 45 Cash Flows - Fiscal 2021 Compared to Fiscal 2020 The comparison of fiscal 2021 to 2020 has been omitted from this Form 10-K, but can be referenced in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 3, 2021, filed on August 19, 2021. Working Capital and Capital Expenditures As of July 2, 2022, in addition to our cash flows from operations, our sources of liquidity and capital resources were comprised of the following: (1) As of July 2, 2022, approximately 34.7% of our Cash and cash equivalents and Short-term investments were held outside the United States. We have analyzed our global working capital and cash requirements, and the potential tax liabilities associated with repatriation, and have determined that we will likely repatriate some portion of available foreign cash in the foreseeable future. The Company has recorded deferred taxes on certain earnings of non-US subsidiaries that are deemed likely to be repatriated. See Note 15, "Income Taxes" for more information. (2) On May 11, 2022, the Company financed and replaced the $900.0 Million Revolving Credit Facility by entering into a new credit facility that (i) includes an increased revolving credit facility (the “$1.25 Billion Revolving Credit Facility”) from $900.0 million to $1.25 billion, (ii) includes an unsecured $500.0 Million Term Loan (the “Term Loan”) and (iii) redefines certain terms within the replaced Revolving Credit Facility. Both the $1.25 Billion Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan (collectively, the “Credit Facilities”) will mature on May 11, 2027. The Company and its subsidiaries must comply on a quarterly basis with a maximum 4.0 to 1.0 ratio of (a) consolidated debt minus unrestricted cash and cash equivalents in excess of $300 million to (b) consolidated EBITDAR. Borrowings under the $1.25 Billion Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at the Company’s option, (i) for borrowings in U.S. Dollars, either (a) an alternate base rate or (b) a term secured overnight financing rate, (ii) for borrowings in Euros, the Euro Interbank Offered Rate, (iii) for borrowings in Pounds Sterling, the Sterling Overnight Index Average Reference Rate and (iv) for borrowings in Japanese Yen, the Tokyo Interbank Offer Rate, plus, in each case, an applicable margin. The applicable margin will be adjusted by reference to a grid (the “Pricing Grid”) based on the ratio of (a) consolidated debt to (b) consolidated EBITDAR (the “Gross Leverage Ratio”). Additionally, the Company will pay facility fees, calculated at a rate per annum determined in accordance with the Pricing Grid, on the full amount of the $1.25 Billion Revolving Credit Facility, payable quarterly in arrears, and certain fees with respect to letters of credit that are issued. The $1.25 Billion Revolving Credit Facility may be used to finance the working capital needs, capital expenditures, permitted investments, share purchases, dividends and other general corporate purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries (which may include commercial paper backup). There were no outstanding borrowings on the $1.25 Billion Revolving Credit Facility as of July 2, 2022. The Term Loan includes a two-month delayed draw period from the closing date. On June 14, 2022 the Company drew down on the Term Loan to satisfy the Company’s remaining obligations under the 3.000% senior unsecured notes due 2022 and for general corporate purposes. The Term Loan amortizes in an amount equal to 5.00% per annum, with payments made quarterly. As of July 2, 2022, $31.2 million of the Term Loan is included in Current debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Borrowings under the Term Loan bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at the Company’s option, either (i) an alternate base rate or (ii) a term secured overnight financing rate plus, in each case, an applicable margin. The applicable margin will be adjusted by reference to a pricing grid based on the Gross Leverage Ratio. Additionally, the Company will pay a ticking fee on the undrawn amount of the Term Loan. Refer to Note 12, "Debt," for further information on our existing debt instruments. (3) In December 2021, the Company issued $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.050% senior unsecured notes due March 15, 2032 at 99.705% of par (the "2032 Senior Notes") and completed cash tender offers for $203.4 million and 46 $296.6 million of the outstanding aggregate principal amount under its 2027 Senior Notes and 2025 Senior Notes, respectively. In June 2017, the Company issued $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2027 Senior Notes, and $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.000% senior unsecured notes due July 15, 2022 at 99.505% of par (the "2022 Senior Notes"). The 2022 Senior Notes were fully redeemed as of July 2, 2022. In March 2015, the Company issued $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2025 Senior Notes. Furthermore, the indentures for the 2032 Senior Notes, 2027 Senior Notes, and 2025 Senior Notes contain certain covenants limiting the Company’s ability to: (i) create certain liens, (ii) enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions and (iii) merge, or consolidate or transfer, sell or lease all or substantially all of the Company’s assets. As of July 2, 2022, no known events of default have occurred. Refer to Note 12, "Debt," for further information on our existing debt instruments. We believe that our Revolving Credit Facility is adequately diversified with no undue concentrations in any one financial institution. As of July 2, 2022, there were 14 financial institutions participating in the Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loans, with no one participant maintaining a combined maximum commitment percentage in excess of 14%. We have no reason to believe at this time that the participating institutions will be unable to fulfill their obligations to provide financing in accordance with the terms of the facility in the event we elect to draw funds in the foreseeable future. We have the ability to draw on our credit facilities or access other sources of financing options available to us in the credit and capital markets for, among other things, acquisition or integration-related costs, our restructuring initiatives, settlement of a material contingency, or a material adverse business or macroeconomic development, as well as for other general corporate business purposes. Management believes that cash flows from operations, access to the credit and capital markets and our credit lines, on-hand cash and cash equivalents and our investments will provide adequate funds to support our operating, capital, and debt service requirements for fiscal 2023 and beyond. There can be no assurance that any such capital will be available to the Company on acceptable terms or at all. Our ability to fund working capital needs, planned capital expenditures, and scheduled debt payments, as well as to comply with all of the financial covenants under our debt agreements, depends on future operating performance and cash flow. This future operating performance and cash flow are subject to prevailing economic conditions, which is uncertain as a result of Covid-19, and to financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond the Company's control. To improve our working capital efficiency, starting in fiscal 2021 we made available to certain suppliers a voluntary supply chain finance (“SCF”) program that enables our suppliers to sell their receivables from the Company to a global financial institution on a non-recourse basis at a rate that leverages our credit rating. We do not have the ability to refinance or modify payment terms to the global financial institution through the SCF program. No guarantees are provided by the Company or any of our subsidiaries under the SCF program. Total capital expenditures and cloud computing implementation costs were $161.6 million in fiscal 2022 as the Company continues to prioritize investing in digital capabilities. Certain cloud computing implementation costs are recognized within Prepaid expenses and Other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Seasonality The Company's results are typically affected by seasonal trends. During the first fiscal quarter, we typically build inventory for the winter and holiday season. In the second fiscal quarter, working capital requirements are reduced substantially as we generate higher net sales and operating income, especially during the holiday season. In fiscal 2022, due to the increased in-transit times, the Company started to build inventory in the fourth fiscal quarter for the fiscal 2023 winter and holiday season. Fluctuations in net sales, operating income and operating cash flows of the Company in any fiscal quarter may be affected by the timing of wholesale shipments and other events affecting retail sales, including macroeconomic events, such as Covid-19, or adverse weather conditions. Stock Repurchase Plan On November 11, 2021, the Company announced the Board of Directors authorized a common stock repurchase program to repurchase up to $1.00 billion of its outstanding common stock (the "2021 Share Repurchase Program"). On May 12, 2022, the Company announced the Board of Directors authorized the additional repurchase of up to $1.50 billion of its common stock (the "2022 Share Repurchase Program"). Pursuant to this program, purchases of the Company's common stock will be made subject to market conditions and at prevailing market prices, through open market purchases. Repurchased shares of common stock will become authorized but unissued shares. These shares may be issued in the future for general corporate and other purposes. In addition, the Company may terminate or limit the stock repurchase program at any time. As of July 2, 2022, the Company had $1.50 billion of additional shares available to be repurchased as authorized under the 2021 Share Repurchase Program and 2022 Share Repurchase Program. Refer to Part II, Item 5. "Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities," for further information. The Company intends to repurchase approximately $700.0 million worth of stock in fiscal 2023, all of which is remaining under its current authorization. 47 Contractual and Other Obligations Firm Commitments As of July 2, 2022, the Company's contractual obligations are as follows: (1) Mandatory transition tax payments represent our tax obligation incurred in connection with the deemed repatriation of previously deferred foreign earnings pursuant to the Tax Legislation. Refer to Note 15, "Income Taxes," for further information. Interest on outstanding debt includes fixed interest expenses for unsecured notes and variable interest expenses for the term loan. The estimated interest expenses associated with our term loan is based on the current interest rate as of July 2, 2022. Refer to Note 12, "Debt," for further information. We expect to fund these firm commitments with operating cash flows generated in the normal course of business and, if necessary, through availability under our credit facilities or other accessible sources of financing. Excluded from the above contractual obligations table is the non-current liability for unrecognized tax benefits of $101.1 million as of July 2, 2022, as we cannot make a reliable estimate of the period in which the liability will be settled, if ever. Besides the firm commitments noted above, the above table excludes other amounts included in current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at July 2, 2022 as these items will be paid within one year and certain long-term liabilities not requiring cash payments. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements In addition to the commitments included in the table above, we have outstanding letters of credit, surety bonds and bank guarantees of $37.8 million as of July 2, 2022, primarily serving to collateralize our obligation to third parties for duty, leases, insurance claims and materials used in product manufacturing. These letters of credit expire at various dates through calendar 2028. We do not maintain any other off-balance sheet arrangements, transactions, obligations, or other relationships with unconsolidated entities that would be expected to have a material current or future effect on our consolidated financial statements. Refer to Note 13, "Commitments and Contingencies," for further information. 48 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the Company's financial statements. Actual results could differ from estimates in amounts that may be material to the financial statements. Predicting future events is inherently an imprecise activity and, as such, requires the use of judgment. Actual results could differ from estimates in amounts that may be material to the financial statements. The development and selection of the Company’s critical accounting policies and estimates are periodically reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board. The accounting policies discussed below are considered critical because changes to certain judgments and assumptions inherent in these policies could affect the financial statements. For more information on the Company's accounting policies, please refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when the Company satisfies its performance obligations by transferring control of promised products or services to its customers, which may be at a point of time or over time. Control is transferred when the customer obtains the ability to direct the use of and obtain substantially all of the remaining benefits from the products or services. The amount of revenue recognized is the amount of consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled, including estimation of sale terms that may create variability in the consideration. Revenue subject to variability is constrained to an amount which will not result in a significant reversal in future periods when the contingency that creates variability is resolved. Retail store and concession shop-in-shop revenues are recognized at the point-of-sale, when the customer obtains physical possession of the products. Digital revenue from sales of products ordered through the Company’s e-commerce sites is recognized upon delivery and receipt of the shipment by its customers and includes shipping and handling charges paid by customers. Retail and digital revenues are recorded net of estimated returns, which are estimated by developing an expected value based on historical experience. Payment is due at the point of sale. The Company recognizes revenue within the wholesale channel at the time title passes and risk of loss is transferred to customers, which is generally at the point of shipment of products but may occur upon receipt of the shipment by the customer in certain cases. Wholesale revenue is recorded net of estimates for returns, discounts, end-of-season markdowns, cooperative advertising allowances and other consideration provided to the customer. The Company's historical estimates of these variable amounts have not differed materially from actual results. The Company recognizes licensing revenue over time during the contract period in which licensees are granted access to the Company's trademarks. These arrangements require licensees to pay a sales-based royalty and may include a contractually guaranteed minimum royalty amount. Revenue for contractually guaranteed minimum royalty amounts is recognized ratably over the license year and any excess sales-based royalties are recognized as earned once the minimum royalty threshold is achieved. At July 2, 2022, a 10% change in the allowances for estimated uncollectible accounts, markdowns and returns would not have resulted in a material change in the Company's reserves and net sales. Inventories The Company holds inventory that is sold through retail and wholesale distribution channels, including e-commerce sites. Substantially all of the Company's inventories are comprised of finished goods, and are reported at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Inventory costs include material, conversion costs, freight and duties and are primarily determined on a weighted-average cost basis. The Company reserves for inventory, including slow-moving and aged inventory, based on current product demand, expected future demand and historical experience. A decrease in product demand due to changing customer tastes, buying patterns or increased competition could impact the Company's evaluation of its inventory and additional reserves might be required. Estimates may differ from actual results due to the quantity, quality and mix of products in inventory, consumer and retailer preferences and market conditions. At July 2, 2022, a 10% change in the inventory reserve, would not have resulted in material change in inventory and cost of sales. 49 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Upon acquisition, the Company estimates and records the fair value of purchased intangible assets, which primarily consists of brands, customer relationships, right-of-use assets and order backlog. Goodwill and certain other intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives, including brand intangible assets, are not amortized, but are assessed for impairment at least annually. Finite-lived intangible assets are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives and, along with other long-lived assets as noted above, are evaluated for impairment periodically whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their related carrying values may not be fully recoverable. Estimates of fair value for finite-lived and indefinite-lived intangible assets are primarily determined using discounted cash flows and the multi-period excess earnings method, respectively, with consideration of market comparisons as appropriate. This approach uses significant estimates and assumptions, including projected future cash flows, discount rates and growth rates. The Company generally performs its annual goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment analysis using a quantitative approach. The quantitative goodwill impairment test identifies the existence of potential impairment by comparing the fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying value, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, the reporting unit's goodwill is considered not to be impaired. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The impairment charge recognized is limited to the amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. Determination of the fair value of a reporting unit and intangible asset is based on management's assessment, considering independent third-party appraisals when necessary. Furthermore, this determination is judgmental in nature and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, which may include projected future cash flows, discount rates, growth rates, and determination of appropriate market comparables and recent transactions. These estimates and assumptions could have a significant impact on whether or not an impairment charge is recognized and the amount of any such charge. The Company performs its annual impairment assessment of goodwill as well as brand intangibles at the beginning of the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. The Company determined that there was no impairment in fiscal 2022 or fiscal 2021. During the third quarter of fiscal 2020, profitability trends continued to decline from those that were expected for the Stuart Weitzman brand. The reduction in both cash from operations and future expected cash flows were exacerbated by the Covid-19 pandemic, which resulted in a decline in sales driven by full and partial closures of a significant portion of our stores globally. As a result of these macroeconomic conditions, the Company concluded that a triggering event had occurred during the third quarter of fiscal 2020, resulting in the need to perform a quantitative interim impairment assessment over the Company’s Stuart Weitzman reporting unit and indefinite-lived brand intangible assets. The assessment concluded that the fair values of the Stuart Weitzman reporting unit and indefinite-lived brand intangible asset as of the third quarter of fiscal 2020 did not exceed their respective carrying values. Accordingly, in the third quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $210.7 million related to the Stuart Weitzman reporting unit, resulting in a full impairment. During the third quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company also recorded an impairment charge of $267.0 million related to the Stuart Weitzman indefinite-lived brand, resulting in a full impairment. In considering the excess of the fair value over its carrying value for all Coach and Kate Spade reporting unit and indefinite-lived brand intangibles, management did not perform an interim assessment for these reporting units in fiscal 2020. Further, the Company determined there was no impairment during the fiscal 2020 annual impairment assessment. Based on the annual assessment in fiscal 2022, the fair values of our Coach brand reporting units significantly exceeded their respective carrying values. The fair values of the Kate Spade brand reporting unit and indefinite-lived brand as of the fiscal 2022 testing date exceeded their carrying values by approximately 50% and 90%, respectively. Several factors could impact the Kate Spade brand's ability to achieve expected future cash flows, including the optimization of the store fleet productivity, the success of international expansion strategies, the impact of promotional activity, continued economic volatility and potential operational challenges related to the macroeconomic factors, the reception of new collections in all channels, and other initiatives aimed at increasing profitability of the business. Given the relatively small excess of fair value over carrying value as noted above, if profitability trends decline during fiscal 2023 from those that are expected, it is possible that an interim test, or our annual impairment test, could result in an impairment of these assets. Valuation of Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, such as property and equipment, are evaluated for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. In evaluating long-lived assets for recoverability, the Company uses its best estimate of future cash flows expected to result from the use of the related asset group and its eventual disposition. To the extent that estimated future undiscounted net cash flows attributable to the asset are less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the difference between the carrying value of such asset and its fair value, considering external market participant assumptions. In determining future cash flows, the Company takes various factors into account, including the effects of macroeconomic trends such as consumer spending, in-store capital investments, promotional cadence, the level of advertising and changes in 50 merchandising strategy. Since the determination of future cash flows is an estimate of future performance, there may be future impairments in the event that future cash flows do not meet expectations. Share-Based Compensation The Company recognizes the cost of equity awards to employees and the non-employee Directors based on the grant-date fair value of those awards. The grant-date fair values of share unit awards are based on the fair value of the Company's common stock on the date of grant. The grant-date fair value of stock option awards is determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and involves several assumptions, including the expected term of the option, expected volatility and dividend yield. The expected term of options represents the period of time that the options granted are expected to be outstanding and is based on historical experience. Expected volatility is based on historical volatility of the Company’s stock as well as the implied volatility from publicly traded options on the Company's stock. Dividend yield is based on the current expected annual dividend per share and the Company’s stock price. Changes in the assumptions used to determine the Black-Scholes value could result in significant changes in the Black-Scholes value. For stock options and share unit awards, the Company recognizes share-based compensation net of estimated forfeitures and revises the estimates in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from the estimates. The Company estimates the forfeiture rate based on historical experience as well as expected future behavior. The Company grants performance-based share awards to key executives, the vesting of which is subject to the executive’s continuing employment and the Company's or individual's achievement of certain performance goals. On a quarterly basis, the Company assesses actual performance versus the predetermined performance goals, and adjusts the share-based compensation expense to reflect the relative performance achievement. Actual distributed shares are calculated upon conclusion of the service and performance periods, and include dividend equivalent shares. If the performance-based award incorporates a market condition, the grant-date fair value of such award is determined using a pricing model, such as a Monte Carlo Simulation. A hypothetical 10% change in our stock-based compensation expense would not have a material impact to our fiscal 2022 net income. Income Taxes The Company’s effective tax rate is based on pre-tax income, statutory tax rates, tax laws and regulations, and tax planning strategies available in the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. The Company classifies interest and penalties on uncertain tax positions in the Provision for income taxes. The Company records net deferred tax assets to the extent it believes that it is more likely than not that these assets will be realized. In making such determination, the Company considers all available evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent and expected future results of operation. The Company reduces deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance if, based upon the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that some amount of deferred tax assets is not expected to be realized. The Company is not permanently reinvested with respect to earnings of a limited number of foreign entities and has recorded the tax consequences of remitting earnings from these entities. The Company is permanently reinvested with respect to all other earnings. The Company recognizes the impact of tax positions in the financial statements if those positions will more likely than not be sustained on audit, based on the technical merits of the position. Although the Company believes that the estimates and assumptions used are reasonable and legally supportable, the final determination of tax audits could be different than that which is reflected in historical tax provisions and recorded assets and liabilities. Tax authorities periodically audit the Company’s income tax returns and the tax authorities may take a contrary position that could result in a significant impact on the Company's results of operations. Significant management judgment is required in determining the effective tax rate, in evaluating tax positions and in determining the net realizable value of deferred tax assets. Refer to Note 15, “Income Taxes,” for further information. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 3, "Significant Accounting Policies," to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements for a description of certain recently adopted, issued or proposed accounting standards which may impact our consolidated financial statements in future reporting periods. 51