********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The nature of our business activities subjects us to certain hazards and risks. You should consider carefully the following risk factors together with all the other information contained in this report. If any of the following risks were to occur, then our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Summary Risk Factors Risks Related to our Results of Operations Risks Related to our Capital Projects and Future Growth 29 Risks Related to our Financial Condition Risks Related to the Ownership of our Common Stock Risks Related to our Indebtedness Risks Related to Regulatory Matters 30 Risks Related to our Results of Operations Our cash flow is affected by supply and demand for natural gas, NGL products and crude oil and by natural gas, NGL, crude oil and condensate prices, and decreases in commodity prices and/or activity levels could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations can be affected by the level of natural gas, NGL and crude oil prices and the relationship between these prices. The prices of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil have been volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. Our future cash flows may be materially adversely affected if we experience significant, prolonged price deterioration. The markets and prices for natural gas, NGLs and crude oil depend upon factors beyond our control. These factors include supply and demand for these commodities, which fluctuates with changes in market and economic conditions, and other factors, including: Additionally, we have been and may continue to be adversely affected by the continued impact on global demand for energy commodities related to the COVID-19 pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has reduced economic activity and the related demand for energy commodities. These effects, combined with a period of increased production from major oil producing nations and decreasing availability of crude oil storage, have contributed to lower commodity prices compared to historical levels and are expected to continue to impact demand over the short-to-medium-term. Our primary natural gas gathering and processing arrangements that expose us to commodity price risk are our percent-of-proceeds arrangements. Under these arrangements, we generally process natural gas from producers and remit to the producers an agreed percentage of the proceeds from the sale of residue gas and NGL products at market prices or a percentage of residue gas and NGL products at the tailgate of our processing facilities. In some percent-of-proceeds arrangements, we remit to the producer a percentage of an index-based price for residue gas and NGL products, less agreed adjustments, rather than remitting a portion of the actual sales proceeds. Under these types of arrangements, our revenues and cash flows increase or decrease, whichever is applicable, as the prices of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil fluctuate, to the extent our exposure to these prices is unhedged. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” 31 The widespread outbreak pandemics (like COVID-19) or any other public health crisis that impacts the global demand for energy commodities may have material adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. We face risks related to the outbreak of illnesses, pandemics and other public health crises that are outside of our control and could significantly disrupt our operations and adversely affect our financial condition. For example, the global spread of COVID-19 has caused business disruption, including disruption to the oil and gas industry. The COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted the global economy, disrupted global supply chains, reduced global demand for oil and gas, and created significant volatility and disruption of financial and commodity markets. The full extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operational and financial performance, including our ability to execute our business strategies and initiatives in the expected time frame, is uncertain and depends on various factors, including the demand for natural gas, NGLs and crude oil (including the impact that reductions in travel, manufacturing and consumer product demand have had and will have on the demand for energy commodities), the availability of personnel, equipment and services critical to our ability to operate our assets and the impact of potential governmental restrictions on travel, transportation and operations. The degree to which the COVID-19 pandemic or any other public health crisis adversely impacts our results will also depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. These developments include, but are not limited to, the duration and spread of the outbreak, its severity, the actions to contain the virus or treat its impact, its impact on the economy and market conditions, and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume. Therefore, while we expect this matter will continue to disrupt our operations in some way, the degree of the adverse financial impact cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. Refer to Note 5 - Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets of the “Consolidated Financial Statements” included in this Annual Report for further discussion regarding the impact of COVID-19 and non-cash pre-tax impairments recorded by the Company in 2020. A reduction in demand for NGL products by the petrochemical, refinery or other industries or by the fuel or export markets, or a significant increase in NGL product supply relative to this demand, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The NGL products we produce have a variety of applications, including heating fuels, petrochemical feedstocks and refining blend stocks. A reduction in demand for NGL products, whether because of general or industry-specific economic conditions, new government regulations, global competition, reduced demand by consumers for products made with NGL products (for example, reduced petrochemical demand observed due to lower activity in the automobile and construction industries), reduced demand for propane or butane exports whether for price or other reasons, reduced demand due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, increased competition from petroleum-based feedstocks due to pricing differences, mild winter weather for some NGL applications or other reasons, could result in a decline in the volume of NGL products we handle or reduce the fees we charge for our services. Also, increased supply of NGL products could reduce the value of NGLs handled by us and reduce the margins realized. Our NGL products and their demand are affected as follows: Ethane . Ethane is typically supplied as purity ethane and as part of an ethane-propane mix. Ethane is primarily used in the petrochemical industry as feedstock for ethylene, one of the basic building blocks for a wide range of plastics and other chemical products. Although ethane is typically extracted as part of the mixed NGL stream at gas processing plants, if natural gas prices increase significantly in relation to NGL product prices or if the demand for ethylene falls, it may be more profitable for natural gas processors to leave the ethane in the natural gas stream, thereby reducing the volume of NGLs delivered for fractionation and marketing. Propane . Propane is used as a petrochemical feedstock in the production of ethylene and propylene, as a heating, engine and industrial fuel, and in agricultural applications such as crop drying. Changes in demand for ethylene and propylene could adversely affect demand for propane. The demand for propane as a heating fuel is significantly affected by weather conditions. The volume of propane sold is increasingly driven by international exports supplying a growing global demand for the product. Domestically in the U.S., propane is at its highest during the six-month peak heating season of October through March. Demand for our propane may be reduced during periods of slow global economic growth and warmer-than-normal weather. Normal Butane . Normal butane is used in the production of isobutane, as a refined petroleum product blending component, as a fuel gas (either alone or in a mixture with propane) and in the production of ethylene and propylene. Changes in the composition of refined petroleum products resulting from governmental regulation, changes in feedstocks, products and economics, and demand for heating fuel, ethylene and propylene could adversely affect demand for normal butane. The volume of butane sold is increasingly driven by international exports supplying a growing demand for the product. 32 Isobutane. Isobutane is predominantly used in refineries to produce alkylates to enhance octane levels. Accordingly, any action that reduces demand for motor gasoline or demand for isobutane to produce alkylates for octane enhancement might reduce demand for isobutane. Natural Gasoline . Natural gasoline is used as a blending component for certain refined petroleum products and as a feedstock used in the production of ethylene and propylene. Changes in the mandated composition of motor gasoline resulting from governmental regulation, and in demand for ethylene and propylene, could adversely affect demand for natural gasoline. NGLs and products produced from NGLs also compete with products from global markets. Any reduced demand or increased supply for ethane, propane, normal butane, isobutane or natural gasoline in the markets we access for any of the reasons stated above could adversely affect both demand for the services we provide and NGL prices, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. The natural decline in production in our operating regions and in other regions from which we source NGL supplies means our long-term success depends on our ability to obtain new sources of supplies of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil, which depends on certain factors beyond our control. Any decrease in supplies of natural gas, NGLs or crude oil could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our gathering systems are connected to crude oil and natural gas wells from which production will naturally decline over time, which means that the cash flows associated with these sources of natural gas and crude oil will likely also decline over time. Our logistics assets are similarly impacted by declines in NGL supplies in the regions in which we operate as well as other regions from which we source NGLs. To maintain or increase throughput levels on our gathering systems and the utilization rate at our processing plants and our treating and fractionation facilities, we must continually obtain new natural gas, NGL and crude oil supplies. A material decrease in natural gas or crude oil production from producing areas on which we rely, as a result of depressed commodity prices or otherwise, could result in a decline in the volume of natural gas or crude oil that we gather and process, NGLs that we transport or NGL products delivered to our fractionation facilities. Our ability to obtain additional sources of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil depends, in part, on the level of successful drilling and production activity near our gathering systems and, in part, on the level of successful drilling and production in other areas from which we source NGL and crude oil supplies. We have no control over the level of such activity in the areas of our operations, the amount of reserves associated with the wells or the rate at which production from a well will decline. In addition, we have no control over producers or their drilling, completion or production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, demand for hydrocarbons, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulations, the availability of drilling rigs, other production and development costs and the availability and cost of capital. Fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. Drilling and production activity generally decreases as crude oil and natural gas prices decrease. Prices of crude oil and natural gas have been historically volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. Consequently, even if new natural gas or crude oil reserves are discovered in areas served by our assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. For example, current low prices for natural gas combined with relatively high levels of natural gas in storage could result in curtailment or shut-in of natural gas production similar to the production shut-ins we experienced in 2020 due to the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. Furthermore, in response to depressed commodity prices, many operators have announced substantial reductions in their estimated capital expenditures, rig count and completion crews. Reductions in exploration and production activity, competitor actions or shut-ins by producers in the areas in which we operate may prevent us from obtaining supplies of natural gas or crude oil to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells, which could result in reduced volumes through our facilities and reduced utilization of our gathering, treating, processing, transportation and fractionation assets. Our industry is highly competitive and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our business and operating results. We compete with similar enterprises in our respective areas of operation. Some of our competitors are large crude oil, natural gas and NGL companies that have greater financial resources and access to supplies of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil than we do. Some of these competitors may expand or construct gathering, processing, storage, terminaling and transportation systems that would create additional competition for the services we provide to our customers. In addition, customers who are significant producers of natural gas may develop their own gathering, processing, storage, terminaling and transportation systems in lieu of using those operated by us. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors and our customers. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 33 We operate in areas of high industry activity, which may affect our ability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel needed to manage and operate our business. We operate in areas in which industry activity has increased rapidly. As a result, demand for qualified personnel in these areas, particularly those related to our Permian and Badlands assets, and the cost to attract and retain such personnel, has increased over the past few years due to competition, and may increase substantially in the future. Moreover, our competitors may be able to offer better compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel than we are able to offer. Any delay or inability to secure the personnel necessary for us to continue or complete our current and planned development projects, or any significant increases in costs with respect to the hiring, training or retention of qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our natural gas and crude oil gathering systems, terminals and processing facilities become partially or fully unavailable to transport natural gas, NGLs and crude oil, our revenues could be adversely affected. We depend upon third-party pipelines, storage and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from our gathering and processing facilities. Since we do not own or operate these pipelines or other facilities, their continuing operation in their current manner is not within our control. If any of these third-party facilities become partially or fully unavailable, or if the quality specifications for their facilities change so as to restrict our ability to utilize them, our revenues could be adversely affected. We typically do not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas or crude oil reserves dedicated to our gathering pipeline systems; therefore, volumes on our systems in the future could be less than we anticipate. We typically do not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas or crude oil reserves connected to our gathering systems due to the unwillingness of producers to provide reserve information as well as the cost of such evaluations. Accordingly, we do not have independent estimates of total reserves dedicated to our gathering systems or the anticipated life of such reserves. If the total reserves or estimated life of the reserves connected to our gathering systems is less than we anticipate and we are unable to secure additional sources of supply, then the volumes of natural gas or crude oil transported on our gathering systems in the future could be less than we anticipate. A decline in the volumes on our systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We do not own most of the land on which our pipelines, terminals and compression facilities are located, which could disrupt our operations. We do not own most of the land on which our pipelines, terminals and compression facilities are located, and we are therefore subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid rights of way or leases or if such rights of way or leases lapse or terminate. We sometimes obtain the rights to land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. Additionally, the federal Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals has held that tribal ownership of even a very small fractional interest in an allotted land, that is, tribal land owned or at one time owned by an individual Indian landowner, bars condemnation of any interest in the allotment. Consequently, the inability to condemn such allotted lands under circumstances where an existing pipeline rights of way may soon lapse or terminate serves as an additional impediment for pipeline operators. We cannot guarantee that we will always be able to renew existing rights of way or obtain new rights of way without experiencing significant costs. Any loss of rights with respect to our real property, through our inability to renew rights of way contracts or leases, or otherwise, could cause us to cease operations on the affected land, increase costs related to continuing operations elsewhere and reduce our revenue. If we lose any of our named executive officers, our business may be adversely affected. Our success is dependent upon the efforts of our named executive officers. Our named executive officers are responsible for executing our business strategies. There is substantial competition for qualified personnel in the midstream oil and gas industry. We may not be able to retain our existing named executive officers or fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover. We have not entered into employment agreements with any of our named executive officers. In addition, we do not maintain “key man” life insurance on the lives of any of our named executive officers. A loss of one or more of our named executive officers could harm our business and prevent us from implementing our business strategies. 34 Weather may limit our ability to operate our business and could adversely affect our operating results. The weather in the areas in which we operate can cause disruptions and in some cases suspension of our operations and development activities. For example, unseasonably wet weather, extended periods of below freezing weather, or hurricanes may cause a loss of throughput from temporary cessation of activities or lost or damaged equipment. Our planning for normal climatic variation, insurance programs and emergency recovery plans may inadequately mitigate the effects of such weather conditions, and not all such effects can be predicted, eliminated or insured against. Some forecasters expect that potential climate changes may have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events and could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Any unusual or prolonged severe weather or increased frequency thereof, such as freezing rain, earthquakes, hurricanes, droughts, or floods in our or our oil and gas exploration and production customers’ areas of operations or markets, whether due to climate change or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Rising sea levels, subsidence and erosion could damage our pipelines and the facilities that serve our customers, particularly along the Gulf Coast and offshore, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations along the Gulf Coast and offshore could be impacted by rising sea levels, subsidence and erosion. Subsidence issues are also a concern for our pipelines at major river crossings. Rising sea levels, subsidence and erosion could cause serious damage to our pipelines and other facilities, which could affect our ability to provide services or result in leakage, migration, releases or spills from our operations to surface or subsurface soils, surface water, groundwater or to the Gulf of Mexico, which could result in liability, remedial obligations and/or otherwise have a negative impact on continued operations. Additionally, such rising sea levels, subsidence and erosion processes could impact our oil and gas exploration and production customers who operate along the Gulf Coast, and they may be unable to utilize our services. Rising sea levels, subsidence and erosion could also expose our operations to increased risks associated with severe weather conditions and other adverse events and conditions, such as hurricanes and flooding. As a result, we may incur costs to repair and preserve our pipeline infrastructure and other facilities. Such costs could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, local governments and landowners have filed lawsuits in recent years in Louisiana against energy companies, alleging that their operations contributed to increased coastal rising seas and erosion and seeking substantial damages. Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be insured or fully covered by insurance. If a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not fully insured, if we fail to recover all anticipated insurance proceeds for significant accidents or events for which we are insured, or if we fail to rebuild facilities damaged by such accidents or events, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. Our operations are subject to many hazards inherent in purchasing, gathering, compressing, treating, processing and/or selling natural gas; storing, fractionating, treating, transporting and selling NGLs and NGL products; and purchasing, gathering, storing and/or terminaling crude oil, including: 35 These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury, loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, and pollution or other environmental or natural resource damage, and may result in delay, curtailment or suspension of our related operations. A natural disaster or other hazard affecting the areas in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are not fully insured against all risks inherent to our business. Additionally, while we are insured for pollution resulting from environmental accidents that occur on a sudden and accidental basis, we may not be insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, some of which may result in toxic tort claims. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, if we fail to recover all anticipated insurance proceeds for significant accidents or events for which we are insured, or if we fail to rebuild facilities damaged by such accidents or events, our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies have increased substantially, and could escalate further. For example, following the occurrence of severe hurricanes along the U.S. Gulf Coast in recent years, insurance premiums, deductibles and co-insurance requirements increased substantially, and terms were generally less favorable than terms that could be obtained prior to such hurricanes, with some coverage unavailable at any cost. Unexpected volume changes due to production variability or to gathering, plant or pipeline system disruptions may increase our exposure to commodity price movements. We sell processed natural gas at plant tailgates or at pipeline pooling points. Sales made to natural gas marketers and end-users may be interrupted by disruptions to volumes anywhere along the system. We attempt to balance sales with volumes supplied from processing operations, but unexpected volume variations due to production variability or to gathering, plant or pipeline system disruptions may expose us to volume imbalances which, in conjunction with movements in commodity prices, could materially impact our income from operations and cash flow. Portions of our pipeline systems may require increased expenditures for maintenance and repair owing to the age of some of our systems, which expenditures or resulting loss of revenue due to pipeline age or condition could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Some portions of the pipeline systems that we operate have been in service for several decades prior to our purchase of them. Consequently, there may be historical occurrences or latent issues regarding our pipeline systems that our executive management may be unaware of and that may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The age and condition of some of our pipeline systems could also result in increased maintenance or repair expenditures, and any downtime associated with increased maintenance and repair activities could materially reduce our revenue. Any significant increase in maintenance and repair expenditures or loss of revenue due to the age or condition of some portions of our pipeline systems could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks have resulted in increased costs to our business. Continued hostilities in the Middle East, other sustained military campaigns and civil unrest in the United States may adversely impact our results of operations. The long-term impact of terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, and the threat of future terrorist attacks on our industry in general and on us in particular is not known at this time. However, resulting regulatory requirements and/or related business decisions associated with security are likely to increase our costs. Increased security measures taken by us as a precaution against possible terrorist attacks have resulted in increased costs to our business. Uncertainty surrounding continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of crude oil supplies and markets for our products, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets, or indirect casualties, of an act of terror. Additionally, recent acts of protest and civil unrest have caused economic and political disruption in the United States. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. Moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage or coverage may be reduced or unavailable. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital. 36 We face opposition to operation and expansion of our pipelines and facilities from various individuals and groups. We have experienced, and we anticipate that we will encounter from time to time, opposition to the operation and expansion of our pipelines and facilities from governmental officials, non-governmental environmental organizations and groups, landowners, tribal groups, local groups and other advocates. In some instances, we encounter opposition which disfavors hydrocarbon-based energy supplies regardless of practical implementation or financial considerations. Opposition to our operation and expansion can take many forms, including the delay, denial or termination of required governmental permits or approvals, organized protests, attempts to block or sabotage our operations, intervention in regulatory or administrative proceedings involving our assets or lawsuits or other actions designed to prevent, disrupt, delay or terminate the operation or expansion of our assets and business. In addition, destructive forms of protest or opposition by activists, including acts of sabotage or eco terrorism could cause significant damage or injury to people, property or the environment or lead to extended interruptions of our operations. Any such event that restricts, delays or prevents the expansion of our business, interrupts the revenues generated by our operations or causes us to make significant expenditures not covered by insurance could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We may incur significant costs and liabilities resulting from performance of pipeline integrity programs and related repairs. Pursuant to the authority under the NGPSA and HLPSA, PHMSA has established a series of rules requiring pipeline operators to develop and implement integrity management programs for certain natural gas and hazardous liquids pipelines that, in the event of a pipeline leak or rupture could affect higher risk areas, known as HCAs and MCAs, which are areas where a release could have the most significant adverse consequences. The HCAs for natural gas, crude oil, NGL and condensate pipelines impose increasing safety-related requirements as the population density or ecological sensitivity increases. An MCA is defined in relation to natural gas pipelines and is based on high-population areas as well as certain principal, high-capacity roadways, though it does not meet the definition of a natural gas pipeline HCA. Among other things, these regulations require operators of covered pipelines to: In addition, certain states, including Texas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, New Mexico, and North Dakota, where we conduct operations, have adopted regulations similar to existing PHMSA regulations for certain intrastate natural gas and hazardous liquids pipelines. We currently estimate an average annual cost of $4.9 million between 2021 and 2023 to implement pipeline integrity management program testing along certain segments of our natural gas and hazardous liquids pipelines. This estimate does not include the costs, if any, of repair, remediation or preventative or mitigative actions that may be determined to be necessary as a result of the discovery of anomaly conditions during the testing program, which costs could be substantial. At this time, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with applicable pipeline integrity management regulations, as the cost will vary significantly depending on the number and extent of any repairs found to be necessary as a result of the pipeline integrity testing. We plan to continue our pipeline integrity testing programs to assess and maintain the integrity of our pipelines. The results of these tests could cause us to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of our pipelines. 37 Moreover, changes to pipeline safety laws by Congress and regulations by PHMSA that result in more stringent or costly safety standards could have a material adverse effect on us and similarly situated midstream operators. For instance, several years after publishing a proposed rulemaking, referred to as the “gas Mega Rule,” that proposed to expand various technical and operating aspects of gas pipelines, PHMSA elected to split the proposed rulemaking into three rules. The first of these rules, relating to onshore gas transmission pipelines, was published as a final rule in October 2019 and became effective in July 2020. This final rule required, among other things, reconfirmation of maximum allowable operating pressure (“MAOP”) and assessment of additional pipeline mileage outside of HCAs (including all MCAs and those Class 3 and Class 4 areas found not to be in HCAs) within 14 years of the publication date and at least once every 10 years thereafter. The remaining rulemakings comprising the gas Mega Rule have not yet been published, and we cannot predict when they will be finalized; however, they are expected to include revised pipeline repair criteria as well as more stringent corrosion control requirements. Additionally, PHMSA published a final rule in October 2019 for hazardous liquid transmission and gathering pipelines. This hazardous liquid final rule became effective in July 2020 and significantly extends and expands the reach of certain PHMSA integrity management requirements, regardless of the pipeline’s proximity to an HCA and requires most hazardous liquid pipelines in or affecting an HCA to be capable of accommodating in-line inspection tools within the next 20 years. In April 2020 and June 2020, PHMSA published proposed rules that would seek to ease regulatory burdens on hazardous liquid pipelines and gas transmission, distribution and gathering lines. No final rules have been issued with respect to those proposed rulemakings and it is expected that President Biden will reconsider those rules. Integrity-related requirements and other provisions required under applicable pipeline safety laws together with any implementation of PHMSA rules thereunder, could require us to pursue additional capital projects or conduct integrity or maintenance programs on an accelerated basis and incur increased operating costs that could have a material adverse effect on our costs of transportation services as well as our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to cyber security risks. A cyber incident could occur and result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption and/or financial loss. The oil and natural gas industry has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct business. For example, we depend on digital technologies to operate our facilities, serve our customers and record financial data. At the same time, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks, have increased. The U.S. government has issued public warnings that indicate that energy assets might be specific targets of cyber security threats. Our technologies, systems and networks, and those of our vendors, suppliers, customers and other business partners, may become the target of cyberattacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary and other information, or could adversely disrupt our business operations. In addition, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance, may remain undetected for an extended period. Our systems for protecting against cyber security risks may not be sufficient. As cyber incidents continue to evolve, we will likely be required to expend additional resources to enhance our security posture and cybersecurity defenses or to investigate and remediate any vulnerability to or consequences of cyber incidents. Our insurance coverages for cyberattacks may not be sufficient to cover all the losses we may experience as a result of a cyber incident. 38 Risks Related to our Capital Projects and Future Growth Our expansion or modification of existing assets or the construction of new assets may not result in revenue increases and are subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The construction of additions or modifications to our existing systems and the construction of new midstream assets involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond our control and may require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule, at the budgeted cost or at all. For example, the construction of additional systems may be delayed or require greater capital investment if the commodity prices of certain supplies, such as steel pipe, increase due to imposed tariffs. Moreover, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we build a new pipeline, fractionation facility or gas processing plant, the construction may occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until the project is completed. Moreover, we may construct pipelines or facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which such growth does not materialize. Since we are not engaged in the exploration for and development of natural gas and oil reserves, we do not possess reserve expertise and we often do not have access to third-party estimates of potential reserves in an area prior to constructing pipelines or facilities in such area. To the extent we rely on estimates of future production in any decision to construct additions to our systems, such estimates may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of future production. As a result, new pipelines or facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the construction of additions to our existing gathering and transportation assets may require us to obtain new rights of way prior to constructing new pipelines. We may be unable to obtain or renew such rights of way to connect new natural gas and crude oil supplies to our existing gathering lines or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive for us to obtain new rights of way or to renew existing rights of way. If the cost of renewing or obtaining new rights of way increases, our cash flows could be adversely affected. If we do not develop growth projects and/or make acquisitions for expanding existing assets or constructing new assets on economically acceptable terms, or fail to efficiently and effectively integrate developed or acquired assets with our asset base, our future growth will be limited. In addition, any acquisitions we complete are subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and reduce our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. In addition, we may not achieve the expected results of any acquisitions and any adverse conditions or developments related to such acquisitions may have a negative impact on our operations and financial condition. Our ability to grow depends, in part, on our ability to develop growth projects and/or make acquisitions that result in an increase in cash generated from operations. We will need to focus on organic growth and third-party acquisitions. If we are unable to develop accretive growth projects or make accretive acquisitions because we are (1) unable to develop growth projects economically or identify attractive acquisition candidates and negotiate acceptable acquisition agreements or, (2) unable to obtain financing for these projects or acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, or (3) unable to compete successfully for growth projects or acquisitions, then our future growth and ability to increase dividends will be limited. Any growth project or acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: 39 If these risks materialize, any growth project or acquired assets may inhibit our growth, fail to deliver expected benefits and/or add further unexpected costs. Challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of a growth project or acquisition. If we consummate any future growth project or acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly and you may not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in evaluating future growth projects or acquisitions. Our growth and acquisition strategy is based, in part, on our expectation of ongoing divestitures of energy assets by industry participants and new opportunities created by industry expansion. A material decrease in such divestitures or in opportunities for economic commercial expansion would limit our opportunities for future growth projects or acquisitions and could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available to pay cash dividends to our stockholders. Growth projects may increase our concentration in a line of business or geographic region and acquisitions may significantly increase our size and diversify the geographic areas in which we operate. In addition, we may not achieve the desired effect from any future growth projects or acquisitions. Our growth and acquisition strategy requires access to new capital. Tightened capital markets or increased competition for investment opportunities could impair our ability to grow through growth projects or acquisitions. We continuously consider and enter into discussions regarding potential growth projects and acquisitions. Any limitations on our access to capital will impair our ability to execute this strategy. If the cost of such capital becomes too expensive, our ability to develop or acquire strategic and accretive assets will be limited. We may not be able to raise the necessary funds on satisfactory terms, if at all. The primary factors that influence our initial cost of equity include market conditions, fees we pay to underwriters and other offering costs, which include amounts we pay for legal and accounting services. The primary factors influencing our cost of borrowing include interest rates, credit spreads, covenants, underwriting or loan origination fees and similar charges we pay to lenders. These factors may impair our ability to execute our growth and acquisition strategy. In addition, we may experience increased competition for the types of assets we contemplate purchasing or developing. Current economic conditions, including those caused by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, and competition for asset purchases and development opportunities could limit our ability to fully execute our growth and acquisition strategy. We may be unable to cause our majority-owned joint ventures to take or not to take certain actions unless some or all of our joint venture participants agree and certain of our joint venture partners may fail or refuse to fund their respective portions of capital projects that we believe are necessary to expand or maintain such joint venture’s business. We participate in several majority-owned joint ventures whose corporate governance structures require at least a majority in interest vote to authorize many basic activities and require a greater voting interest (sometimes up to 100%) to authorize more significant activities. Examples of these more significant activities include, among others, large expenditures or contractual commitments, the construction or acquisition of assets, borrowing money or otherwise raising capital, making distributions, transactions with affiliates of a joint venture participant, litigation and transactions not in the ordinary course of business. Without the concurrence of joint venture participants with enough voting interests, we may be unable to cause any of our joint ventures to take or not take certain actions, even though taking or preventing those actions may be in our best interests or the particular joint venture. Certain of our joint venture partners may fail, refuse or elect not to fund their respective portions of capital projects that we believe are necessary to effectively expand or maintain such joint venture’s business. Such failure or election not to fund may impact the operations of the joint venture and may increase the capital that could be required from us if we were to fund such projects without the full participation of our joint venture partners. We may not achieve an acceptable rate of return for any such additional expenditures. 40 In addition, subject to certain conditions, any joint venture owner may sell, transfer or otherwise modify its ownership interest in a joint venture, whether in a transaction involving third parties or the other joint owners. Any such transaction could result in our partnering with different or additional parties. We may operate a portion of our business with one or more joint venture partners where we own a minority interest and/or are not the operator, which may restrict our operational and corporate flexibility. Actions taken by the other partner or third-party operator may materially impact our financial position and results of operations, and we may not realize the benefits we expect to realize from a joint venture. As is common in the midstream industry, we may operate one or more of our properties with one or more joint venture partners where we own a minority interest and/or contract with a third party to control operations. These relationships could require us to share operational and other control, such that we may no longer have the flexibility to control completely the development of these properties. If we do not timely meet our financial commitments in such circumstances, our rights to participate may be adversely affected. If a joint venture partner is unable or fails to pay its portion of development costs or if a third-party operator does not operate in accordance with our expectations, our costs of operations could be increased. We could also incur liability as a result of actions taken by a joint venture partner or third-party operator. Disputes between us and the other party may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses, delay or terminate projects and distract our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business. Risks Related to our Financial Condition If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. In addition, potential changes in accounting standards might cause us to revise our financial results and disclosure in the future. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide timely and reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide timely and reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We continue to enhance our internal controls and financial reporting capabilities. These enhancements require a significant commitment of resources, personnel and the development and maintenance of formalized internal reporting procedures to ensure the reliability of our financial reporting. Our efforts to update and maintain our internal controls may not be successful, and we may be unable to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting now or in the future, including future compliance with the obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to maintain effective controls or difficulties encountered in the effective improvement of our internal controls could prevent us from timely and reliably reporting our financial results and may harm our operating results. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. In addition, the Financial Accounting Standards Board or the SEC could enact new accounting standards that might impact how we are required to record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. Any significant change in accounting standards or disclosure requirements could have a material effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to comply with our debt obligations. 41 We are exposed to credit risks of our customers, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. Many of our customers may experience financial problems that could have a significant effect on their creditworthiness, especially in a depressed commodity price environment. A decline in natural gas, NGL and crude oil prices may adversely affect the business, financial condition, results of operations, creditworthiness, cash flows and prospects of some of our customers. Severe financial problems encountered by our customers could limit our ability to collect amounts owed to us, or to enforce performance of obligations under contractual arrangements. In addition, many of our customers finance their activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. The combination of reduction of cash flow resulting from a decline in commodity prices, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve-based credit facilities and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a significant reduction of our customers’ liquidity and limit their ability to make payment or perform on their obligations to us. Additionally, a decline in the share price of some of our public customers may place them in danger of becoming delisted from a public securities exchange, limiting their access to the public capital markets and further restricting their liquidity. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks, which increases the risk that they may default on their obligations to us. To the extent one or more of our key customers is in financial distress or commences bankruptcy proceedings, contracts with these customers may be subject to renegotiation or rejection under applicable provisions of the United States Bankruptcy Code. Furthermore, some bankruptcy courts have found that, in certain cases oil, gas and water gathering agreements do not create covenants running with the land under governing law and are thus subject to rejection in chapter 11 proceedings. Whether a particular contract is subject to rejection depends on the wording of the contract, the governing law and the forum where a particular bankruptcy case is filed. Financial problems experienced by our customers could result in the impairment of our long-lived assets, reduction of our operating cash flows and may also reduce or curtail their future use of our products and services, which could reduce our revenues. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers or our derivative counterparties could reduce our ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders. Changes in future business conditions could have a negative impact on the demand for our services and could cause recorded long-lived assets to become further impaired, and our financial condition and results of operations could suffer if there is a negative impact on the demand for our services and an additional impairment of long-lived assets. We evaluate long-lived assets, including related intangibles, for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate, in management's judgment, that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. Asset recoverability is measured by comparing the carrying value of the asset or asset group with its expected future pre-tax undiscounted cash flows. These cash flow estimates require us to make projections and assumptions for many years into the future for pricing, demand, competition, operating cost and other factors. Global oil and natural gas commodity prices, particularly crude oil, have declined substantially as compared to the peak of pricing in mid-2014 and remain volatile. Decreases in commodity prices have previously had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on the demand for our services and our market capitalization. Should energy industry conditions deteriorate, there is a possibility that long-lived assets may be impaired in a future period. For example, in the first quarter of 2020, we recorded non-cash pre-tax impairments of $2,442.8 million primarily associated with the partial impairment of gas processing facilities and gathering systems associated with our Mid-Continent operations and full impairment of our Coastal operations - all of which are in our Gathering and Processing segment. Any additional impairment charges that we may take in the future could be material to our financial statements. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of long-lived assets. For a further discussion of our impairments of long-lived assets, see Note 5 — Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets of the “Consolidated Financial Statements” included in this Annual Report. 42 Our hedging activities may not be effective in reducing the variability of our cash flows and may, in certain circumstances, increase the variability of our cash flows. Moreover, our hedges may not fully protect us against volatility in basis differentials. Finally, the percentage of our expected equity commodity volumes that are hedged decreases substantially over time. We have entered into derivative transactions related to only a portion of our equity volumes, future commodity purchases and sales, and transportation basis risk. As a result, we will continue to have direct commodity price risk to the unhedged portion. Our actual future volumes may be significantly higher or lower than we estimated at the time we entered into the derivative transactions for that period. If the actual amount is higher than we estimated, we will have greater commodity price risk than we intended. If the actual amount is lower than the amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale of the underlying physical commodity. The percentages of our expected equity volumes that are covered by our hedges decrease over time. To the extent we hedge our commodity price risk, we may forego the benefits we would otherwise experience if commodity prices were to change in our favor. The derivative instruments we utilize for these hedges are based on posted market prices, which may be higher or lower than the actual natural gas, NGL and condensate prices that we realize in our operations. These pricing differentials may be substantial and could materially impact the prices we ultimately realize. Market and economic conditions may adversely affect our hedge counterparties’ ability to meet their obligations. Given volatility in the financial and commodity markets, we may experience defaults by our hedge counterparties. In addition, our exchange traded futures are subject to margin requirements, which creates variability in our cash flows as commodity prices fluctuate. As a result of these and other factors, our hedging activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the variability of our cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the variability of our cash flows. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” If we fail to balance our purchases and sales of the commodities we handle, our exposure to commodity price risk will increase. We may not be successful in balancing our purchases and sales of the commodities we handle. In addition, a producer could fail to deliver promised volumes to us or deliver in excess of contracted volumes, or a purchaser could purchase less than contracted volumes. Any of these actions could cause an imbalance between our purchases and sales. If our purchases and sales are not balanced, we will face increased exposure to commodity price risks and could have increased volatility in our operating income. The amounts we pay in dividends may vary from anticipated amounts and circumstances may arise that lead to conflicts between using funds to pay anticipated dividends or to invest in our business. The determination of the amounts of cash dividends, if any, to be declared and paid will depend upon our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the level of our capital expenditures, future business prospects and any other matters that our board of directors, in consultation with management, deems relevant. Many of these matters are affected by factors beyond our control and therefore, the actual amount of cash that is available for dividends to our stockholders may vary from anticipated amounts. Additionally, as events present themselves or become reasonably foreseeable, our board of directors, which determines our business strategy and our dividends, may decide to address those matters by utilizing capital that may otherwise be used for our dividend. For example, in March 2020, our board of directors approved a reduction in our quarterly cash dividend to $0.10 per share for the quarter ended March 31, 2020 and have maintained such dividend amount for the quarters ended June 30, 2020, September 30, 2020 and December 31, 2020. If we issue additional shares of common or preferred stock or we incur debt, the payment of dividends on those additional shares or interest on that debt could increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our cash dividend levels. If dividends on our shares of common stock are not paid with respect to any fiscal quarter, our stockholders will not be entitled to receive that quarter’s payments in the future. Dividends to our common stockholders are not cumulative. Consequently, if dividends on our shares of common stock are not paid with respect to any fiscal quarter, our stockholders will not be entitled to receive that quarter’s payments in the future. Our future tax liability may be greater than expected if our net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards are limited, we do not generate expected deductions, or tax authorities challenge certain of our tax positions. As of December 31, 2020, we have U.S. federal NOL carryforwards of $6.6 billion, some of which expire between 2036 to 2037 while others have no expiration date. We expect to be able to utilize these NOL carryforwards and generate deductions to offset all or a portion of our future taxable income. This expectation is based upon assumptions we have made regarding, among other things, our income, capital expenditures and net working capital, and the current expectation that our NOL carryforwards will not become subject to future limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (“Section 382”). 43 Section 382 generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of NOLs that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone an “ownership change” (as determined under Section 382). An ownership change generally occurs if one or more stockholders (or groups of stockholders) who are each deemed to own at least 5% of our stock change their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period. In the event that an ownership change were to occur, utilization of our NOLs carryforwards would be subject to an annual limitation under Section 382, determined by multiplying the value of our stock at the time of the ownership change by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate as defined in Section 382, subject to certain adjustments. While we expect to be able to utilize our NOL carryforwards and generate deductions to offset all or a portion of our future taxable income, in the event that deductions are not generated as expected, one or more of our tax positions are successfully challenged by the IRS (in a tax audit or otherwise), or our NOL carryforwards are subject to future limitations under Section 382, our future tax liability may be greater than expected. The implementation of derivatives legislation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act"), enacted on July 21, 2010, established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank Act required the CFTC and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act. Although the CFTC has finalized most of these regulations, others remain to be finalized or implemented and it is not possible at this time to predict when this will be accomplished. In October 2020, the CFTC adopted new rules that would place limits on positions in certain core futures and equivalent swaps contracts for or linked to certain physical commodities, subject to exceptions for certain bona fide hedging transactions. The new rules became effective in December 2020 but have a general compliance date of January 1, 2022 and later compliance date of January 1, 2023 with respect to swaps-related requirements and the elimination of previously granted risk management exemptions. The impact of those provisions on us is uncertain at this time. The CFTC has designated certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps for mandatory clearing and the associated rules also will require us, in connection with covered derivative activities, to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements or take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements. Although we qualify for the end-user exception from the mandatory clearing requirements for swaps entered to hedge our commercial risks, the application of the mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that we use for hedging. The CFTC and the federal banking regulators have adopted regulations requiring certain counterparties to swaps to post initial and variation margin. However, our current hedging activities would qualify for the non-financial end user exemption from the margin requirements. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and related regulatory requirements upon our business will not be known until all of the regulations are implemented and the market for derivatives contracts has adjusted. The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts or increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act and implementing regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition and our results of operations. The European Union (the “EU”) and other non-U.S. jurisdictions are also implementing regulations with respect to the derivatives market. To the extent we enter into swaps with counterparties in foreign jurisdictions or counterparties with other businesses that subject them to regulation in foreign jurisdictions, we may become subject to or otherwise impacted by such regulations. As is the case with the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations promulgated under it, the implementing regulations adopted by the EU and by other non-U.S. jurisdictions could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition and our results of operations. 44 Risks Related to the Ownership of our Common Stock Our Series A Preferred Stock (“Preferred Shares”) gives the holders thereof liquidation and distribution preferences, certain rights relating to our business and management, and the ability to convert such shares into our common stock, potentially causing dilution to our common stockholders. In March 2016, we issued 965,100 Preferred Shares, which rank senior to the common stock with respect to distribution rights and rights upon liquidation. Subject to certain exceptions, so long as any Preferred Shares remain outstanding, we may not declare any dividend or distribution on our common stock unless all accumulated and unpaid dividends have been declared and paid on the Preferred Shares. In the event of our liquidation, winding-up or dissolution, the holders of the Preferred Shares would have the right to receive proceeds from any such transaction before the holders of the common stock. The payment of the liquidation preference could result in common stockholders not receiving any consideration if we were to liquidate, dissolve or wind up, either voluntarily or involuntarily. Additionally, the existence of the liquidation preference may reduce the value of the common stock, make it harder for us to sell shares of common stock in offerings in the future, or prevent or delay a change of control. The Certificate of Designations governing the Preferred Shares provides the holders of the Preferred Shares with the right to vote, under certain conditions, on an as-converted basis with our common stockholders on matters submitted to a stockholder vote. The holders of the Preferred Shares do not currently have such right to vote. Also, so long as any Preferred Shares are outstanding, subject to certain exceptions, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least a majority of the outstanding Preferred Shares, voting together as a separate class, will be necessary for effecting or validating, among other things: (i) any issuance of stock senior to the Preferred Shares, (ii) any issuance or increase by any of our consolidated subsidiaries of any issued or authorized amount of, any specific class or series of securities, (iii) any issuance by us of parity stock, subject to certain exceptions and (iv) any incurrence of indebtedness by us and our consolidated subsidiaries for borrowed monies, other than under our existing credit agreement and the Partnership’s existing credit agreement (or replacement commercial bank credit facilities) in an aggregate amount up to $2.75 billion, or indebtedness that complies with a specified fixed charge coverage ratio. These restrictions may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. Pro forma for the repurchase of 45,800 shares of our Series A Preferred Stock in December 2020, we currently have 919,300 shares outstanding. The conversion of the Preferred Shares into common stock twelve years after the issuance of the Preferred Shares, pursuant to the terms of the Certificate of Designations, may cause substantial dilution to holders of the common stock. Because our Board of Directors is entitled to designate the powers and preferences of preferred stock without a vote of our shareholders, subject to NYSE rules and regulations, our shareholders will have no control over what designations and preferences our future preferred stock, if any, will have. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our stock price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible securities may dilute your ownership in us. We or our stockholders may sell shares of common stock in subsequent public offerings. We may also issue additional shares of common stock or convertible securities. As of December 31, 2020, we had 228,061,853 outstanding shares of common stock. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as Delaware law, contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, some provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders, including provisions which require: 45 Delaware law prohibits us from engaging in any business combination with any “interested stockholder,” meaning generally that a stockholder who beneficially owns more than 15% of our stock cannot acquire us for a period of three years from the date this person became an interested stockholder, unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our board of directors. Risk Related to Our Indebtedness Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our cost of capital, which could increase our funding costs and reduce the overall profitability of our business. We have significant exposure to increases in interest rates. As of December 31, 2020, our total indebtedness was $7,801.0 million, excluding $0.2 million of net premiums and $45.5 million of net debt issuance costs, of which $6,585.2 million was at fixed interest rates, $1,185.0 million was at variable interest rates and $30.8 million of finance lease liabilities. A hypothetical change of 100 basis points in the rate of our variable interest rate debt would impact the Partnership’s annual interest expense by $6.3 million and our consolidated annual interest expense by $11.9 million based on our December 31, 2020 debt balances. As a result of this amount of variable interest rate debt, our results of operations could be adversely affected by increases in interest rates. Additionally, like all equity investments, an investment in our equity securities is subject to certain risks. In exchange for accepting these risks, investors may expect to receive a higher rate of return than would otherwise be obtainable from lower-risk investments. Accordingly, as interest rates rise, the ability of investors to obtain higher risk-adjusted rates of return by purchasing government-backed debt securities may cause a corresponding decline in demand for riskier investments generally, including yield-based equity investments. Reduced demand for our common stock resulting from investors seeking other more favorable investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness which may adversely affect our financial position and we may still be able to incur substantially more debt, which could collectively increase the risks associated with compliance with our financial covenants. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2020, we had $6,530.6 million outstanding of the Partnership’s senior unsecured notes and $54.6 million of outstanding senior notes of TPL, excluding $0.2 million of unamortized net discounts and premiums. We also had $350.0 million outstanding under the Partnership’s Securitization Facility. In addition, we had (i) $280.0 million of borrowings outstanding, $44.4 million of letters of credit outstanding and $1,875.6 million of additional borrowing capacity available under the TRP Revolver, and (ii) $555.0 million of borrowings outstanding and $115.0 million of additional borrowing capacity available under the TRC Revolver. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, our consolidated interest expense, net was $391.3 million, $337.8 million and $185.8 million. In August 2020, the Partnership issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 4⅞ % Senior Notes due 2031, resulting in total net proceeds of approximately $ 991 million . A portion of the net proceeds from the issuance were used to fund the August Tender Offer and redeem any 6¾% Notes that remained outstanding after consummation of the August Tender Offer, with the remainder used for repayment of borrowings under the TRP Revolver. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of indebtedness. This substantial indebtedness, combined with lease and other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have other important consequences to us, including the following: 46 Our long-term unsecured debt is currently rated by Standard & Poor’s Corporation (“S&P”) and Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (“Moody’s”). As of December 31, 2020, Targa’s senior unsecured debt was rated “BB” by S&P. As of December 31, 2020, Targa’s senior unsecured debt was rated “Ba3” by Moody’s. Any future downgrades in our credit ratings could negatively impact our cost of raising capital, and a downgrade could also adversely affect our ability to effectively execute aspects of our strategy and to access capital in the public markets. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying business activities, investments or capital expenditures, acquisitions, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing debt, or seeking additional equity capital, and such results may adversely affect our ability to make cash dividends. We may not be able to affect any of these actions on satisfactory terms, or at all. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The TRP Revolver and TRC Revolver provide available commitments of $2.2 billion and $670.0 million and allow us to request increases in commitments up to an additional $500 million and $200 million. Although our debt agreements contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and any indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If we incur additional debt, this could increase the risks associated with compliance with our financial covenants. The terms of our debt agreements may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in business or to take certain actions, including to pay dividends to our stockholders. The agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness contain, and any future indebtedness we incur will likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best long-term interests. These agreements include covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: In addition, certain of our debt agreements require us to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios and other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet those ratios and tests. 47 A breach of any of these covenants could result in an event of default under our debt agreements. Upon the occurrence of such an event of default, all amounts outstanding under the applicable debt agreements could be declared to be immediately due and payable and all applicable commitments to extend further credit could be terminated. For example, if we are unable to repay the accelerated debt under the TRP Revolver, the lenders under the TRP Revolver could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If we are unable to repay the accelerated debt under the Securitization Facility, the lenders under the Securitization Facility could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the indebtedness. We have pledged the assets and equity of certain of the Partnership’s subsidiaries as collateral under the TRP Revolver and the accounts receivables of Targa Receivables LLC under the Securitization Facility. If the indebtedness under our debt agreements is accelerated, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets to repay the indebtedness. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in these debt agreements and any future financing agreements may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters Our and our customers’ operations are subject to a number of risks arising out of the threat of climate change (including legislation or regulation to address climate change) that could result in increased operating costs, limit the areas in which oil and natural gas production may occur, and reduce demand for the products and services we provide. The threat of climate change continues to attract considerable attention in the United States and in foreign countries. As a result, numerous proposals have been made and could continue to be made at the international, national, regional and state levels of government to monitor and limit existing emissions of GHGs as well as to restrict or eliminate such future emissions. As a result, our operations as well as the operations of our oil and natural gas exploration and production customers are subject to a series of executive, regulatory, political, litigation, and financial risks associated with the production and processing of fossil fuels and emission of GHGs. In the United States, no comprehensive climate change legislation has been implemented at the federal level, but President Biden has announced plans to take action with regards to climate change, has already signed several executive orders to this effect in January 2021 and, with control of Congress shifting in January 2021, is expected to pursue legislative as well as other executive and regulatory initiatives in the future to limit GHG emissions. Moreover, because the U.S. Supreme Court has held that GHG emissions constitute a pollutant under the CAA, the EPA has adopted rules that, among other things, establish construction and operating permit reviews for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources, require the monitoring and annual reporting of GHG emissions from certain petroleum and natural gas system sources, implement New Source Performance Standards (“NSPS”) directing the reduction of methane from certain new, modified, or reconstructed facilities in the oil and natural gas sector, and together with the DOT, implement GHG emissions limits on vehicles manufactured for operation in the United States. In recent years, there has been considerable uncertainty surrounding regulation of the emissions of methane, which may be released during hydraulic fracturing, as the EPA under the Obama Administration published final regulations under the CAA establishing performance standards in 2016, but since that time the EPA under the Trump Administration has undertaken several measures to delay implementation of the methane standards, including publishing in September 2020 final rule policy and technical amendments to the NSPS, for stationary sources of air emissions. The policy amendments, effective September 14, 2020, notably removed the transmission and storage sector from the regulated source category and rescinded methane and VOC requirements for the remaining sources that were established by former President Obama's Administration, whereas the technical amendments, effective November 16, 2020, included changes to fugitive emissions monitoring and repair schedules for gathering and boosting compressor stations and low-production wells, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, and more. Various industry and environmental groups are separately challenging both the 2016 standards and the EPA’s September 2020 final rules and on January 20, 2021, President Biden issued an executive order, that among other things, directed EPA to reconsider the technical amendments and issue a proposed rule suspending, revising or rescinding those amendments by no later than September 2021. A reconsideration of the September 2020 policy amendments is expected to follow. The January 20, 2021 executive order also directed the establishment of new methane and volatile organic compound standards applicable to existing oil and gas operations, including the production, transmission, processing and storage segments. Separately, various states and groups of states have adopted or are considering adopting legislation, regulations or other regulatory initiatives that are focused on such areas as GHG cap and trade programs, carbon taxes, reporting and tracking programs, and restriction of emissions. At the international level, the non-binding “Paris Agreement” calls for parties to undertake efforts to limit their GHG emissions through individually-determined reduction goals every five years beginning in 2020. Although the United States under the Trump Administration withdrew from the agreement, President Biden has issued executive orders in January 2021 recommitting the United States to the Paris Agreement and calling for the federal government to begin formulating the United States’ nationally determined emissions reduction goal under the agreement. With the United States recommitting to the Paris Agreement, executive orders may be issued or federal legislation or regulatory initiatives may be adopted to achieve the agreement’s goals, which could require us or our customers to incur increased, potentially significant, costs to comply with such requirements. 48 Governmental, scientific, and public concern over the threat of climate change arising from GHG emissions has resulted in increasing political risks in the United States. Beyond the Biden Administration’s recommitting the United States to the Paris Agreement and proposing to issue more stringent methane standards, on January 20, 2021, the Acting Secretary of the U.S. Department of the Interior issued an order, effective immediately, that suspends new oil and gas leases and drilling permits on non-Indian federal lands and waters for a period of 60 days. Building on this suspension, President Biden issued an executive order on January 27, 2021 that suspends new leasing activities for oil and gas exploration and production on non-Indian federal lands and offshore waters pending completion of a comprehensive review and reconsideration of federal oil and gas permitting and leasing practices that take into consideration potential climate and other impacts associated with oil and gas activities on such lands and waters. The January 20, 2021 and January 27, 2021 orders do not apply to existing leases and the January 27, 2021 order further directs applicable agencies to eliminat e fossil fuel subsidies . Legal challenges to these suspensions are expected, with at least one industry group filing a lawsuit on January 27, 2021 in Wyoming federal district court and seeking to have the moratorium on leasing declared invalid. Litigation risks are also increasing, as a number of states, municipalities and other plaintiffs have sought to bring suit against the largest oil and natural gas exploration and production companies in state or federal court, alleging, among other things, that such companies created public nuisances by producing fuels that contributed to global warming effects, such as rising sea levels, and therefore are responsible for roadway and infrastructure damages as a result, or alleging that the companies have been aware of the adverse effects of climate change for some time but defrauded their investors by failing to adequately disclose those impacts. There are also increasing financial risks for fossil fuel producers as well as other companies handling fossil fuels, including owners of terminals, pipelines and refineries, as stockholders and bondholders currently invested in fossil fuel energy companies concerned about the potential effects of climate change may elect in the future to shift some or all of their investments into non-fossil fuel energy related sectors. Institutional investors who provide financing to fossil fuel energy companies also have become more attentive to sustainability lending practices and some of them may elect not to provide funding for fossil fuel energy companies. Additionally, the lending and investment practices of institutional lenders have been the subject of intensive lobbying efforts in recent years, oftentimes public in nature, by environmental activists, proponents of the international Paris Agreement, and foreign citizenry concerned about climate change not to provide funding for fossil fuel producers. Limitation of investments in and financings for fossil fuel energy companies could result in the restriction, delay, or cancellation of drilling programs or development of production activities. The adoption and implementation of any international, federal or state executive actions, legislation, or regulatory initiatives that impose more stringent standards for GHG emissions from the oil and natural gas sector or otherwise restrict the areas in which this sector may produce oil and natural gas or generate GHG emissions could result in increased costs of compliance or costs of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for oil and natural gas, which could reduce demand for our services and products. Additionally, political, litigation, and financial risks may result in our oil and natural gas customers restricting or cancelling production activities, incurring liability for infrastructure damages as a result of climatic changes, or impairing their ability to continue to operate in an economic manner, which also could reduce demand for our services and products. One or more of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Moreover, the increased competitiveness of alternative energy sources (such as wind, solar geothermal, tidal and biofuels) could reduce demand for hydrocarbons, and therefore for our services, which would lead to a reduction in our revenues. Finally, increasing concentrations of GHG in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods, rising sea levels and other climatic events. If any such climate changes were to occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and the financial condition and operations of our customers. Increasing attention to environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters may impact our business. Increasing attention to climate change, increasing societal expectations on companies to address climate change, and potential consumer use of substitutes to energy commodities may result in increased costs, reduced demand for our customers’ products and our services, reduced profits, increased investigations and litigation, and negative impacts on our stock price and access to capital markets.  Increasing attention to climate change, for example, may result in demand shifts for our customers’ hydrocarbon products and additional governmental investigations and private litigation against those customers. In addition, organizations that provide information to investors on corporate governance and related matters have developed ratings processes for evaluating companies on their approach to ESG matters. Additionally, we and other companies in our industry publish sustainability reports that are made available to investors. Such ratings and reports are used by some investors to inform their investment and voting decisions. Unfavorable ESG ratings may lead to increased negative investor sentiment toward us or our customers and to the diversion of investment to other industries which could have a negative impact on our stock price and/or our access to and costs of capital. 49 We could incur significant costs in complying with more stringent occupational safety and health requirements. We are subject to stringent federal and state laws and regulations, including the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act and comparable state statutes, whose purpose is to protect the health and safety of workers, both generally and within the pipeline industry. In addition, the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s (“OSHA”) hazard communication standard, the EPA community right-to-know regulations under Title III of the Federal Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act and comparable state statutes require that information be maintained concerning hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local government authorities and citizens. We and the entities in which we own an interest are subject to OSHA Process Safety Management regulations, which are designed to prevent or minimize the consequences of catastrophic releases of toxic, reactive, flammable or explosive chemicals. The regulations apply to any process that (1) involves a listed chemical in a quantity at or above the threshold quantity specified in the regulation for that chemical, or (2) involves certain flammable gases or flammable liquids present on site in one location in a quantity of 10,000 pounds or more. Flammable liquids stored in atmospheric tanks below their normal boiling point without the benefit of chilling or refrigeration are exempt. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or any newly adopted laws or regulations may result in assessment of sanctions including administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory, remedial and corrective action obligations or the incurrence of capital expenditures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Laws and regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could result in restrictions, delays or cancellations in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells by our customers, which could adversely impact our revenues by decreasing the volumes of natural gas, NGLs or crude oil through our facilities and reducing the utilization of our assets. While we do not conduct hydraulic fracturing, many of our oil and gas exploration and production customers do perform such activities. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions, but several federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over, proposed or promulgated regulations governing, and conducted investigations relating to certain aspects of the process, including the EPA and BLM. The BLM under the Obama Administration issued a rule in 2015 regulating hydraulic fracturing activities on federal lands including requirements for disclosure, wellbore integrity and handling of flowback water; however, in late 2017, the BLM under the Trump Administration issued a rescission of the 2015 rule on hydraulic fracturing but a federal district court vacated the 2017 rescission in July 2020. In another example, in late 2016, the EPA released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, concluding that “water cycle” activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources under certain circumstances. In addition, although Congress has from time to time considered but refused to adopt legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing, there is a possibility that a Biden Administration will consider such legislation and, in any event has already issued executive orders, and may issue additional orders, suspending leasing and permitting of oil and gas activities on federal lands and waters that have the effect of limiting hydraulic fracturing. Moreover, many states, including Texas, Louisiana and Oklahoma, have already adopted, and others may consider adopting, legal requirements that impose stringent permitting, disclosure or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities, assess more taxes, fees or royalties on natural gas production, or otherwise limit the use of the technique. States could elect to prohibit hydraulic fracturing or high volume hydraulic fracturing altogether, as several states have already done. Local governments may also seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular. Additionally, non-governmental organizations may seek to restrict hydraulic fracturing through litigation, state ballot initiatives, or protests. New or more stringent executive orders, laws, regulations or regulatory or ballot initiatives relating to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to our customers reducing crude oil and natural gas drilling activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques, while increased litigation against, or public opposition with respect to activities using such techniques may result in operational delays, restrictions or cessations or bans. Any one or more of such developments could reduce demand for our gathering, processing and fractionation services and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 50 Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations and a failure to comply or an accidental release into the environment may cause us to incur significant costs and liabilities. Our operations are subject to numerous federal, tribal, state and local environmental laws and regulations governing occupational health and safety, the discharge of pollutants into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our operations including acquisition of a permit or other approval before conducting regulated activities, restrictions on the types, quantities and concentration of materials that can be released into the environment; limitation or prohibition of construction and operating activities in environmentally sensitive areas such as wetlands, urban areas, wilderness regions and other protected areas; requiring capital expenditures to comply with pollution control requirements, and imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA and BLM, and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits and approvals issued under them, which can often require difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or any newly adopted laws or regulations may result in assessment of sanctions including administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory, remedial and corrective action obligations or the incurrence of capital expenditures; the occurrence of restrictions, delays or cancellations in the permitting or performance of projects, and the issuance of orders enjoining or conditioning performance of some or all of our operations in a particular area. Certain environmental laws impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances, hydrocarbons or waste products have been released, even under circumstances where the substances, hydrocarbons or wastes have been released by a predecessor operator or the activities conducted and from which a release emanated complied with applicable law. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by noise, odor, or the release of hazardous substances, hydrocarbons or wastes into the environment. The risk of incurring environmental costs and liabilities in connection with our operations is significant due to our handling of natural gas, NGLs, crude oil and other petroleum products, because of air emissions and product-related discharges arising out of our operations, and as a result of historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. For example, an accidental release from one of our facilities could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury, natural resource and property damages and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our operational or compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. For example, in 2015, the EPA under the Obama Administration issued a final rule under the CAA, lowering the National Ambient Air Quality Standard (“NAAQS”) for ground-level ozone. Since that time, the EPA under the Trump Administration has designated attainment and non-attainment regions and, more recently, on December 31, 2020, published notice of a final action that, upon conducting a periodic review of the ozone standard in accord with CAA requirements, elected to retain the 2015 ozone NAAQS without revision on a going-forward basis. However, this December 2020 final action is subject to legal challenge, and the NAAQS may be subject to further revision under the Biden Administration. State implementation of the revised ozone NAAQS could increase our compliance costs. Also in 2015, the EPA and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (“Corps”) under the Obama administration published a final rule outlining federal jurisdictional reach under the Clean Water Act over waters of the United States, including wetlands; however, the 2015 rule was repealed by the EPA and the Corps under the Trump Administration in a final rule that became effective in December 2019. The Trump Administration subsequently published a final rule in April 2020 re-defining the term “waters of the United States” as applied under the Clean Water Act and narrowing the scope of waters subject to federal regulation. The April 2020 final rule is subject to various pending legal challenges and it is expected that a Biden Administration may reconsider this final rule. If the EPA and the Corps under the Biden Administration revises the June 2020 final rule in a manner similar to or more stringent than the original 2015 final rule, or if any challenge to the June 2020 final rule is successful, the scope of the Clean Water Act’s jurisdiction in areas where we or our customers conduct operations could again be expanded. Any such developments could delay, restrict or halt permitting or development of projects, result in longer permitting timelines, or increased compliance expenditures or mitigation costs for our and our oil and natural gas customers’ operations. These results may consequently reduce the rate of production of natural gas or crude oil from operators with whom we have a business relationship and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. 51 A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state, tribal or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase or delay or increase the cost of expansion projects. With the exception of the Driver Residue Pipeline, TPL SouthTex Transmission pipeline and Tarzan 311 residue line , which are each subject to limited FERC regulation under either the NGA or NGPA, our natural gas pipeline operations are generally exempt from FERC regulation, but FERC regulation still affects our non-FERC jurisdictional businesses and the markets for products derived from these businesses, including certain FERC reporting and posting requirements in a given year. We believe that the natural gas pipelines in our gathering systems meet the traditional tests FERC has used to establish a pipeline’s status as a gatherer not subject to regulation as a natural gas company. However, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of substantial, ongoing litigation, so the classification and regulation of our gathering facilities are subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts or Congress. We also operate natural gas pipelines that extend from some of our processing plants to interconnections with both intrastate and interstate natural gas pipelines. Those facilities, known in the industry as “plant tailgate” pipelines, typically operate at transmission pressure levels and may transport “pipeline quality” natural gas. Because our plant tailgate pipelines are relatively short, we treat them as “stub” lines, which are exempt from FERC’s jurisdiction under the Natural Gas Act . Targa NGL, Targa Gulf Coast, and Grand Prix Joint Venture have pipelines that are considered common carrier pipelines subject to regulation by FERC under ICA. The ICA requires that we maintain tariffs on file with FERC for each of the Targa NGL, Targa Gulf Coast and Grand Prix Joint Venture common carrier pipelines that have not been granted a waiver. Those tariffs set forth the rates we charge for providing transportation services as well as the rules and regulations governing these services. The ICA requires, among other things, that rates on interstate common carrier pipelines be “just and reasonable” and non-discriminatory. With respect to pipelines that have been granted a waiver of the ICA and related regulations by FERC, should a particular pipeline’s circumstances change, FERC could, either at the request of other entities or on its own initiative, assert that such pipeline no longer qualifies for a waiver. In the event that FERC were to determine that one or more of these pipelines no longer qualified for a waiver, we would likely be required to file a tariff with FERC for the applicable pipeline(s), provide a cost justification for the transportation charge, and provide service to all potential shippers without undue discrimination. Such a change in the jurisdictional status of transportation on these pipelines could adversely affect our results of operations. The classification of some of our gathering facilities, transportation pipelines, and purchase and sale transactions as FERC-jurisdictional or non-jurisdictional may be subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts or Congress, in which case, our operating costs could increase and we could be subject to enforcement actions under the EP Act of 2005. Various federal agencies within the U.S. Department of the Interior, particularly the BLM, Office of Natural Resources Revenue (formerly the Minerals Management Service) and the Bureau of Indian Affairs, along with the Three Affiliated Tribes, promulgate and enforce regulations pertaining to operations on the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation, on which we operate a significant portion of our Badlands gathering and processing assets. The Three Affiliated Tribes is a sovereign nation having the right to enforce certain laws and regulations independent from federal, state and local statutes and regulations. These tribal laws and regulations include various taxes, fees and other conditions that apply to lessees, operators and contractors conducting operations on Native American tribal lands. Lessees and operators conducting operations on tribal lands can generally be subject to the Native American tribal court system. One or more of these factors may increase our costs of doing business on the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation and may have an adverse impact on our ability to effectively transport products within the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation or to conduct our operations on such lands. Other FERC regulations may indirectly impact our businesses and the markets for products derived from these businesses. FERC’s policies and practices across the range of its natural gas regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on open access transportation, gas quality, ratemaking, capacity release and market center promotion, may indirectly affect the natural gas market. In recent years, FERC has pursued pro-competitive policies in its regulation of interstate natural gas pipelines. However, we cannot assure you that FERC will continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to transportation capacity. For more information regarding the regulation of our operations, see “Item 1. Business—Regulation of Operations.” 52 Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to pipeline safety that require the use of new or more stringent safety controls or result in more rigorous enforcement of applicable legal requirements could subject us to increased capital costs, operational delays and costs of operation. Legislation in the past decade has resulted in more stringent mandates for pipeline safety. In 2016, President Obama signed the Protecting our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety Act of 2016 (“2016 Pipeline Safety Act”) required PHMSA to complete certain of its outstanding mandates under the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011 (“2011 Pipeline Safety Act”). The 2011 Pipeline Safety Act had directed the promulgation of regulations relating to such matters as expanded integrity management requirements, automatic or remote-controlled valve use, excess flow valve use, leak detection system installation, testing to confirm the material strength of certain pipelines and operator verification of records confirming the maximum allowable pressure of certain intrastate gas transmission pipelines. The 2016 Pipeline Safety Act also empowered PHMSA to address unsafe conditions or practices constituting imminent hazards by imposing emergency restrictions, prohibitions and safety measures on owners and operators of gas or hazardous liquid pipeline facilities without prior notice or an opportunity for a hearing. Most recently, in December 2020, Congress passed the Fiscal Year 2021 Omnibus Appropriations Bill, made effective on December 27, 2020, pursuant to which Congress adopted the “Protecting Our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety (“PIPES”) Act of 2020.” The PIPES Act of 2020 reauthorized PHMSA through federal Fiscal Year 2023 and directed the agency to move forward with several regulatory actions, including the “Pipeline Safety: Class Location Change Requirements” and the “Pipeline Safety: Safety of Gas Transmission and Gathering Pipelines” proposed rulemakings. Congress has also instructed PHMSA to issue final regulations that will require operators of non-rural gas gathering lines and new and existing transmission and distribution pipeline facilities to conduct certain leak detection and repair programs and to require facility inspection and maintenance plans to align with those regulations. The imposition of new safety enhancement requirements pursuant to the 2011 Pipeline Safety Act, the 2016 Pipeline Safety Act and the PIPES Act of 2020, or any issuance or reinterpretation of guidance by PHMSA or any state agencies with respect thereto could require us to install new or modified safety controls, pursue additional capital projects or conduct maintenance programs on an accelerated basis, any or all of which tasks could result in our incurring increased operating costs that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. Additionally, PHMSA and one or more state regulators, including the RRC, have in recent years expanded the scope of their regulatory inspections to include certain in-plant equipment and pipelines found within NGL fractionation facilities and associated storage facilities, to assess compliance with hazardous liquids pipeline safety requirements. To the extent that PHMSA and/or state regulatory agencies are successful in asserting their jurisdiction in this manner, we and other midstream operators of NGL fractionation facilities and associated storage facilities may be required to make operational changes or modifications at their facilities to meet standards beyond current OSHA PSM and EPA RMP requirements, which changes or modifications may result in additional capital costs, possible operational delays and increased costs of operation that, in some instances, may be significant. Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC-administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. Under the EP Act of 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA and NGPA to impose penalties for violations of the NGA or NGPA up to approximately $1.3 million (adjusted annually for inflation) per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. While our systems other than the Driver Residue Pipeline, TPL SouthTex Transmission pipeline and Tarzan 311 residue line, have not been regulated by FERC under the NGA or NGPA, FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of our otherwise non-FERC jurisdictional facilities to FERC annual reporting and daily scheduled flow and capacity posting requirements. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or adopted by FERC from time to time. Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could subject us to civil penalty liability. In addition, FERC has civil penalty authority under the ICA to impose penalties for violations under the ICA of up to approximately $13,685 per violation per day, and failure to comply with the ICA and regulations implementing the ICA could subject us to civil penalty liability. For more information regarding regulation of our operations, see “Item 1. Business—Regulation of Operations.” 53 We are or may become subject to cybersecurity and data privacy laws, regulations, litigation and directives relating to our processing of personal information. The jurisdictions in which we operate (including the United States) may have laws governing how we must respond to a cyber incident that results in the unauthorized access, disclosure, or loss of personal information. Additionally, new laws and regulations governing data privacy and unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, including recent California legislation (which, among other things, provides for a private right of action), pose increasingly complex compliance challenges and could potentially elevate our costs over time. Although our business does not involve large-scale processing of personal information, our business does involve collection, use, and other processing of personal information of our employees, investors, contractors, suppliers, and customer contacts. As legislation continues to develop and cyber incidents continue to evolve, we will likely be required to expend significant resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures to comply with such legislation and to detect, investigate and remediate vulnerabilities to cyber incidents. Any failure by us, or a company we acquire, to comply with such laws and regulations could result in reputational harm, loss of goodwill, penalties, liabilities, and/or mandated changes in our business practices.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes included in Part IV of this Annual Report. Additional sections in this Annual Report should be helpful to the reading of our discussion and analysis, including the following: (i) a description of our business strategy found in “Item 1. Business–Overview”; (ii) a description of recent developments, found in “Item 1. Business–Recent Developments”; and (iii) a description of risk factors affecting us and our business, found in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Also, the Partnership files a separate Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC. Discussions of 2018 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2019 and 2018 that are not included in this Annual Report can be found in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. Overview Targa Resources Corp. (NYSE: TRGP) is a publicly traded Delaware corporation formed in October 2005. Targa is a leading provider of midstream services and is one of the largest independent midstream infrastructure companies in North America. We own, operate, acquire and develop a diversified portfolio of complementary domestic midstream infrastructure assets. We are engaged primarily in the business of: Factors That Significantly Affect Our Results Our results of operations are impacted by a number of factors, including the volumes that move through our gathering, processing and logistics assets, contract terms, changes in commodity prices, the impact of hedging activities and the cost to operate and support assets. Commodity Prices The following table presents selected average annual and quarterly industry index prices for natural gas, selected NGL products and crude oil for the periods presented: 2020: 43% ethane, 32% propane, 12% normal butane, 4% isobutane and 9% natural gasoline 2019: 38% ethane, 34% propane, 12% normal butane, 5% isobutane and 11% natural gasoline 58 Volumes In our gathering and processing operations, plant inlet volumes, crude oil volumes and capacity utilization rates generally are driven by wellhead production and our competitive and contractual position on a regional basis and more broadly by the impact of prices for crude oil, natural gas and NGLs on exploration and production activity in the areas of our operations. The factors that impact the gathering and processing volumes also impact the total volumes that flow to our Downstream Business. In addition, fractionation volumes are also affected by the location of the resulting mixed NGLs, available pipeline capacity to transport NGLs to our fractionators and our competitive and contractual position relative to other fractionators. Contract Terms, Contract Mix and the Impact of Commodity Prices With the potential for volatility of commodity prices, the contract mix of our Gathering and Processing segment (other than fee-based contracts in certain gathering and processing business units and gathering and processing services), can have a significant impact on our profitability, especially those percent-of-proceeds contracts that create direct exposure to changes in energy prices by paying us for gathering and processing services with a portion of proceeds from the commodities handled (“equity volumes”). Contract terms in the Gathering and Processing segment are based upon a variety of factors, including natural gas and crude quality, geographic location, competitive dynamics and the pricing environment at the time the contract is executed, and customer requirements. Our gathering and processing contract mix and, accordingly, our exposure to crude, natural gas and NGL prices may change as a result of producer preferences, competition and changes in production as wells decline at different rates or are added, our expansion into regions where different types of contracts are more common and other market factors. The contract terms and contract mix of our Downstream Business can also have a significant impact on our results of operations. Transportation and fractionation services are supported by fee-based contracts whose rates and terms are driven by NGL supply and transportation and fractionation capacity. Export services are supported by fee-based contracts whose rates and terms are driven by global LPG supply and demand fundamentals. The Logistics and Transportation segment includes predominantly fee-based contracts. The adoption of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), in January of 2018 did not result in an impact to our operating or gross margin. However, the adoption did have an impact on the classification between components of operating margin and gross margin, “Fees from midstream services” and “Product purchases,” as well as the reporting of gross versus net revenues. For more details, see “Revenue Recognition” included within Note 3 – Significant Accounting Policies. Impact of Our Commodity Price Hedging Activities We have hedged the commodity price risk associated with a portion of our expected natural gas, NGL and condensate equity volumes, future commodity purchases and sales, and transportation basis risk by entering into financially settled derivative transactions. These transactions include swaps, futures, and purchased puts (or floors) and calls (or caps) to hedge additional expected equity commodity volumes without creating volumetric risk. We intend to continue managing our exposure to commodity prices in the future by entering into derivative transactions. We actively manage the Downstream Business product inventory and other working capital levels to reduce exposure to changing prices. For additional information regarding our hedging activities, see “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk–Commodity Price Risk.” Operating Expenses Variable costs such as fuel, utilities, power, service and repairs can impact our results. The fuel and power costs are pass-through elements in many of our contracts, which mitigates their impact on our results. Continued expansion of existing assets will also give rise to additional operating expenses, which will affect our results. The employees supporting our operations are employees of Targa Resources LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of ours. General and Administrative Expenses We perform centralized corporate functions such as legal, accounting, treasury, insurance, risk management, health, safety, environmental, information technology, human resources, credit, payroll, internal audit, taxes, engineering and marketing. Other than our direct costs of being a separate public reporting company, these costs are reimbursed by the Partnership. See “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” 59 General Trends and Outlook We expect the midstream energy business environment to continue to be affected by the following key trends: demand for our products and services, commodity prices, volatile capital markets, competition and increased regulation. These expectations are based on assumptions made by us and information currently available to us. To the extent our underlying assumptions about or interpretations of available information prove to be incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from our expected results. Demand for Our Services Fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development and production of new oil and natural gas reserves. Our operations are affected by the level of crude, natural gas and NGL prices, the relationship among these prices and related activity levels from our customers. Drilling and production activity generally decreases as crude oil and natural gas prices decrease below commercially acceptable levels. Producers generally focus their drilling activity on certain basins depending on commodity price fundamentals. As a result, our asset systems are predominantly located in some of the most economic basins in the United States. Accordingly, increased producer activity will drive demand for our midstream services and may result in incremental growth capital expenditures. Demand for our transportation, fractionation and other fee-based services is largely correlated with producer activity levels. Demand for our international export, storage and terminaling services has remained relatively constant, as demand for these services is based on a number of domestic and international factors. During 2020, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and related travel restrictions, combined with uncertainty around global commodity supply and demand, commodity prices declined substantially, which led many exploration and production companies to reduce planned capital expenditures for drilling and production activities and also led to some companies shutting-in wells in the first half of 2020. Such activity declines negatively impacted our operations and demand for our services. While production from wells that were previously shut-in during the first half of 2020 across our operating areas has largely resumed, we are uncertain of what pricing and market demand, and the associated demand for our services, will be throughout 2021. Commodity Prices There has been, and we believe there will continue to be, volatility in commodity prices and in the relationships among NGL, crude oil and natural gas prices. As a result of reduced economic activity due to the COVID-19 pandemic paired with uncertainty around global commodity supply and demand, global oil and natural gas commodity prices remain weak relative to historical levels and continue to remain volatile. The volatility and uncertainty of natural gas, crude oil and NGL prices impact drilling, completion and other investment decisions by producers and ultimately supply to our systems. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Our cash flow is affected by supply and demand for natural gas, NGL products and crude oil and by natural gas, NGL, crude oil and condensate prices, and decreases in supply, demand or these prices could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.” Our operating income generally improves in an environment of higher natural gas, NGL and condensate prices, and where the spread between NGL prices and natural gas prices widens primarily as a result of our percent-of-proceeds contracts. Our processing profitability is largely dependent upon pricing and the supply of and market demand for natural gas, NGLs and condensate. Pricing and supply are beyond our control and have been volatile. In a declining commodity price environment, without taking into account our hedges, we will realize a reduction in cash flows under our percent-of-proceeds contracts proportionate to average price declines. Across our operations and particularly in our Downstream Business, we benefit from long-term fee-based arrangements for our services. Our Gathering and Processing segment contract mix also has components of fee-based margin, such as fee floors and other fee-based services which mitigate against low commodity prices. The significant level of margin we derive from fee-based arrangements combined with our hedging arrangements helps to mitigate our exposure to commodity price movements. For additional information regarding our hedging activities, see “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk — Commodity Price Risk.” Volatile Capital Markets and Competition We continuously consider and enter into discussions regarding potential growth projects and acquisitions and identify appropriate private and public capital sources for funding potential growth projects and acquisitions. Any limitations on our access to capital may impair our ability to execute this strategy. If the cost of such capital becomes too expensive, our ability to develop or acquire strategic and accretive assets may be limited. We may not be able to raise the necessary funds on satisfactory terms, if at all. The primary factors influencing our cost of borrowing include interest rates, credit spreads, covenants, underwriting or loan origination fees and similar charges we pay to lenders. These factors may impair our ability to execute our growth and acquisition strategy. 60 Current economic conditions and competition for asset purchases and development opportunities could limit our ability to fully execute our growth strategy. Due to increased volatility in commodity prices and the broader market, the ability of companies in the oil and gas industry to seek financing and access the capital markets on favorable terms or at all has been negatively impacted. We believe we have sufficient access to financial resources and liquidity necessary to meet our requirements for working capital, debt service payments and capital expenditures in 2021 and beyond. For additional information regarding our financing activities, see “Item 1. Business—Recent Developments—Financing Activities.” Increased Regulation Additional regulation in various areas has the potential to materially impact our operations and financial condition. For example, increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing used by producers and increased GHG emission regulations may cause reductions in supplies of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil from producers. Please read “Laws and regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could result in restrictions, delays or cancellations in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells by our customers, which could adversely impact our revenues by decreasing the volumes of natural gas, NGLs or crude oil through our facilities and reducing the utilization of our assets” and “Our and our customers’ operations are subject to a number of risks arising out of the threat of climate change (including legislation or regulation to address climate change) that could result in increased operating costs, limit the areas in which oil and natural gas production may occur, and reduce demand for the products and services we provide” under Item 1A of this Annual Report. Similarly, the forthcoming rules and regulations of the CFTC may limit our ability or increase the cost to use derivatives, which could create more volatility and less predictability in our results of operations. How We Evaluate Our Operations The profitability of our business is a function of the difference between: (i) the revenues we receive from our operations, including fee-based revenues from services and revenues from the natural gas, NGLs, crude oil and condensate we sell, and (ii) the costs associated with conducting our operations, including the costs of wellhead natural gas, crude oil and mixed NGLs that we purchase as well as operating, general and administrative costs and the impact of our commodity hedging activities. Because commodity price movements tend to impact both revenues and costs, increases or decreases in our revenues alone are not necessarily indicative of increases or decreases in our profitability. Our contract portfolio, the prevailing pricing environment for crude oil, natural gas and NGLs, the impact of our commodity hedging program and its ability to mitigate exposure to commodity price movements and the volumes of crude oil, natural gas and NGL throughput on our systems are important factors in determining our profitability. Our profitability is also affected by the NGL content in gathered wellhead natural gas, supply and demand for our products and services, utilization of our assets and changes in our customer mix. Our profitability is also impacted by fee-based contract s. Our growing capital expenditures for pipelines and gathering and processing assets underpinned by fee-based margin, expansion of our downstream facilities, continued focus on adding fee-based margin to our existing and future gathering and processing contracts, as well as third-party acquisitions of businesses and assets, will continue to increase the number of our contracts that are fee-based. Fixed fees for services such as gathering and processing, transportation, fractionation, storage, terminaling and crude oil gathering are not directly tied to changes in market prices for commodities. Nevertheless, a change in market dynamics such as available commodity throughput does affect profitability . Management uses a variety of financial measures and operational measurements to analyze our performance. These include: (1) throughput volumes, facility efficiencies and fuel consumption, (2) operating expenses, (3) capital expenditures and (4) the following non-GAAP measures: gross margin, operating margin, Adjusted EBITDA, distributable cash flow and free cash flow. Throughput Volumes, Facility Efficiencies and Fuel Consumption Our profitability is impacted by our ability to add new sources of natural gas supply and crude oil supply to offset the natural decline of existing volumes from oil and natural gas wells that are connected to our gathering and processing systems. This is achieved by connecting new wells and adding new volumes in existing areas of production, as well as by capturing crude oil and natural gas supplies currently gathered by third parties. Similarly, our profitability is impacted by our ability to add new sources of mixed NGL supply, connected by third-party transportation and Grand Prix, to our Downstream Business fractionation facilities and at times to our export facilities. We fractionate NGLs generated by our gathering and processing plants, as well as by contracting for mixed NGL supply from third-party facilities. 61 In addition, we seek to increase operating margin by limiting volume losses, reducing fuel consumption and by increasing efficiency. With our gathering systems’ extensive use of remote monitoring capabilities, we monitor the volumes received at the wellhead or central delivery points along our gathering systems, the volume of natural gas received at our processing plant inlets and the volumes of NGLs and residue natural gas recovered by our processing plants. We also monitor the volumes of NGLs received, stored, fractionated and delivered across our logistics assets. This information is tracked through our processing plants and Downstream Business facilities to determine customer settlements for sales and volume related fees for service and helps us increase efficiency and reduce fuel consumption. As part of monitoring the efficiency of our operations, we measure the difference between the volume of natural gas received at the wellhead or central delivery points on our gathering systems and the volume received at the inlet of our processing plants as an indicator of fuel consumption and line loss. We also track the difference between the volume of natural gas received at the inlet of the processing plant and the NGLs and residue gas produced at the outlet of such plant to monitor the fuel consumption and recoveries of our facilities. Similar tracking is performed for our crude oil gathering and logistics assets and our NGL pipelines. These volume, recovery and fuel consumption measurements are an important part of our operational efficiency analysis and safety programs. Operating Expenses Operating expenses are costs associated with the operation of specific assets. Labor, contract services, repair and maintenance, utilities and ad valorem taxes comprise the most significant portion of our operating expenses. These expenses, other than fuel and power, remain relatively stable and independent of the volumes through our systems, but may increase with system expansions and will fluctuate depending on the scope of the activities performed during a specific period. Capital Expenditures Our capital expenditures are classified as growth capital expenditures, business acquisitions, and maintenance capital expenditures. Growth capital expenditures improve the service capability of the existing assets, extend asset useful lives, increase capacities from existing levels, add capabilities, and reduce costs or enhance revenues. Maintenance capital expenditures are those expenditures that are necessary to maintain the service capability of our existing assets, including the replacement of system components and equipment, which are worn, obsolete or completing their useful life and expenditures to remain in compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Capital projects associated with growth and maintenance projects are closely monitored. Return on investment is analyzed before a capital project is approved, spending is closely monitored throughout the development of the project, and the subsequent operational performance is compared to the assumptions used in the economic analysis performed for the capital investment approval. Non-GAAP Measures We utilize non-GAAP measures to analyze our performance. Gross margin, operating margin, Adjusted EBITDA, distributable cash flow, and free cash flow are non-GAAP measures. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to these non-GAAP measures is net income (loss) attributable to TRC. These non-GAAP measures should not be considered as an alternative to GAAP net income attributable to TRC and have important limitations as analytical tools. Investors should not consider these measures in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Additionally, because our non-GAAP measures exclude some, but not all, items that affect net income, and are defined differently by different companies within our industry, our definitions may not be comparable with similarly titled measures of other companies, thereby diminishing their utility. Management compensates for the limitations of our non-GAAP measures as analytical tools by reviewing the comparable GAAP measures, understanding the differences between the measures and incorporating these insights into our decision-making processes. Gross Margin We define gross margin as revenues less product purchases. It is impacted by volumes and commodity prices as well as by our contract mix and commodity hedging program. 62 Gathering and Processing segment gross margin consists primarily of: Logistics and Transportation segment gross margin consists primarily of: The gross margin impacts of mark-to-market hedge unrealized changes in fair value are reported in Other. Operating Margin We define operating margin as gross margin less operating expenses. Operating margin is an important performance measure of the core profitability of our operations. Management reviews business segment gross margin and operating margin monthly as a core internal management process. We believe that investors benefit from having access to the same financial measures that management uses in evaluating our operating results. Gross margin and operating margin provide useful information to investors because they are used as supplemental financial measures by management and by external users of our financial statements, including investors and commercial banks, to assess: Adjusted EBITDA We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) attributable to TRC before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, and other items that we believe should be adjusted consistent with our core operating performance. The adjusting items are detailed in the Adjusted EBITDA reconciliation table and its footnotes. Adjusted EBITDA is used as a supplemental financial measure by us and by external users of our financial statements such as investors, commercial banks and others to measure the ability of our assets to generate cash sufficient to pay interest costs, support our indebtedness and pay dividends to our investors. Distributable Cash Flow and Free Cash Flow We define distributable cash flow as Adjusted EBITDA less distributions to TRP preferred limited partners, cash interest expense on debt obligations, cash tax (expense) benefit and maintenance capital expenditures (net of any reimbursements of project costs). The Preferred Units that were issued by the Partnership in October 2015 were redeemed in December 2020, and are no longer outstanding as of the end of the year. We define free cash flow as distributable cash flow less growth capital expenditures, net of contributions from noncontrolling interest and net contributions to investments in unconsolidated affiliates. Distributable cash flow and free cash flow are performance measures used by us and by external users of our financial statements, such as investors, commercial banks and research analysts, to assess our ability to generate cash earnings (after servicing our debt and funding capital expenditures) to be used for corporate purposes, such as payment of dividends, retirement of debt or redemption of other financing arrangements. 63 Our Non-GAAP Financial Measures The following tables reconcile the non-GAAP financial measures used by management to the most directly comparable GAAP measures for the periods indicated. 64 The Company has completed a number of announced growth capital projects since early 2019, and this has resulted in lower growth capital expenditures in 2020 and a transition to free cash flow. The following table details construction and project completion timing of our announced major growth capital projects: 65 Consolidated Results of Operations The following table and discussion is a summary of our consolidated results of operations: 2020 Compared to 2019 The decrease in sales of commodities reflects lower NGL, condensate, petroleum product and natural gas prices ($945.1 million) and lower crude marketing and petroleum product volumes ($397.1 million), partially offset by higher NGL, natural gas, and condensate volumes ($816.3 million) and the favorable impact of hedges ($301.1 million). The decrease in fees from midstream services is primarily due to new commercial arrangements for volumes effective in January 2020, which resulted in a change from net presentation as fees from midstream services to gross presentation as sales of commodities and product purchases, partially offset by increased export and terminaling and storage volumes. The decrease in product purchases reflects lower NGL, condensate, petroleum product and natural gas prices, lower crude marketing volumes associated with the sale of the Delaware crude system, which was effective December 1, 2019, and lower petroleum products volumes, partially offset by higher NGL, natural gas and condensate volumes. Higher operating margin and gross margin in 2020 reflect increased segment results for both Gathering and Processing and Logistics and Transportation. See “—Results of Operations—By Reportable Segment” for additional information regarding changes in operating margin and gross margin on a segment basis. 66 Depreciation and amortization expense decreased primarily due to a lower depreciable base associated with assets that were impaired during 2020 and the sale of the Delaware crude system, which was effective December 1, 2019. The decrease in depreciation and amortization expense was partially offset by depreciation related to major growth capital projects placed in service, including Train 7 in the first quarter of 2020, the additional processing plants and associated infrastructure in the Permian Basin and a full year of depreciation related to Grand Prix, which was placed in service in the third quarter of 2019. General and administrative expense decreased due to cost reduction measures resulting in lower compensation and benefits and non-labor expenses, partially offset by an increase in insurance costs. We recognized non-cash pre-tax impairment charges of $2,442.8 million and $225.3 million during 2020 and 2019. The non-cash pre-tax impairment charge in 2020 is primarily associated with the partial impairment of certain gas processing facilities and gathering systems associated with our Central operations and full impairment of our Coastal operations. The non-cash pre-tax impairment charge in 2019 is primarily associated with the partial impairment of certain gas processing facilities and gathering systems associated with our Central and Coastal operations. Other operating (income) expense in 2020 consisted primarily of a loss associated with the sale of our assets in Channelview, Texas and write-down of certain assets to their recoverable amounts. Other operating (income) expense in 2019 consisted primarily of a loss associated with the sale of our Delaware crude system, which was effective December 1, 2019, and write-down of certain assets to their recoverable amounts. Interest expense, net, increased due to lower capitalized interest resulting from lower growth capital investments and higher average borrowings. The increase in equity earnings is primarily due to higher earnings from our investments in GCX and Little Missouri 4, partially offset by lower earnings from GCF. During 2020, the Partnership repurchased a portion of its outstanding senior notes on the open market and redeemed the 6¾% Senior Notes due 2024 and the 5¼% Senior Notes due 2023, resulting in a $45.6 million net gain from financing activities. During 2019, the Partnership redeemed the 4⅛% Senior Notes due 2019, resulting in $1.4 million loss from financing activities. During 2019, the Partnership closed on the sale of an equity-method investment that resulted in a gain of $69.3 million. The increase in income tax benefit is primarily due to a higher pre-tax book loss and benefit of a net operating loss carryback from the CARES Act, partially offset by a valuation allowance in 2020. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was lower in 2020 primarily due to the allocation of non-cash pre-tax impairment losses recognized during the first quarter of 2020, partially offset by increased earnings allocated to interests holders in the DevCo Joint Ventures, Targa Badlands and Grand Prix. Results of Operations—By Reportable Segment Our operating margins by reportable segment are: 67 Gathering and Processing Segment 68 The following table presents the realized commodity hedge gain/loss attributable to our equity volumes that are included in the gross margin of Gathering and Processing segment: ________________ 2020 Compared to 2019 During the year ended December 31, 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic reduced economic activity and the related demand for energy commodities, which contributed to weak commodity prices compared to historical levels and price volatility. The drop in commodity prices also resulted in prompt reactions from some domestic producers, including significantly reducing capital budgets and resultant drilling activity and shutting-in production, particularly during the second quarter. The resulting decrease in Gathering and Processing segment gross margin was primarily due to lower Central region volumes and lower commodity prices, partially offset by higher inlet volumes and fee-based margin in the Permian region and the Badlands and higher realized hedge gains. Lower volumes in the Central region were attributable to reduced producer activity and temporary shut-ins. In the Permian, inlet volumes and NGL production increased due to production from new wells and the addition of the Hopson, Pembrook and Falcon plants in 2019 and the Peregrine and Gateway plants in 2020. In the Badlands, natural gas purchased volumes and NGL production increased due to production from new wells and the incremental processing capacity available with the commencement of operations at the Little Missouri 4 Plant in the third quarter of 2019. In the Coastal region, volumes were lower due to continued low producer activity and the effects of multiple Gulf Coast hurricanes in the third and fourth quarters of 2020, which necessitated temporary shut downs of certain facilities. Total crude oil volumes decreased in the Badlands due to reduced producer activity and temporary shut-ins, while the decrease in the Permian was primarily due to the sale of the Delaware crude system in the fourth quarter of 2019. Operating expenses were lower due to cost reduction measures implemented in response to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, which resulted in decreases in contract labor, chemicals and compressor rentals, despite the addition of the Peregrine and Gateway processing facilities in the Permian. Logistics and Transportation Segment 69 2020 Compared to 2019 The increase in Logistics and Transportation segment gross margin was driven by higher pipeline transportation, fractionation and LPG export system volumes from higher supply volumes from our Permian Gathering and Processing systems and associated downstream system expansions, partially offset by fewer optimization opportunities in our marketing businesses. NGL transportation and fractionation volumes increased due to higher volumes delivered on Grand Prix, which began full service into Mont Belvieu during the third quarter of 2019, and the commencement of operations of Train 6 in the second quarter of 2019, Train 7 in the first quarter of 2020 and Train 8 late in the third quarter of 2020. Operating expenses were higher due to system expansions, including Grand Prix, fractionation capacity and expansion of our LPG export capabilities and our share of operating expenses associated with GCF and certain one-time maintenance expenses including hurricane damage repairs, partially offset by lower fuel and power costs and cost reduction measures. Other Other contains the results of commodity derivative activity mark-to-market gains/losses related to derivative contracts that were not designated as cash flow hedges. We have entered into derivative instruments to hedge the commodity price associated with a portion of our future commodity purchases and sales and natural gas transportation basis risk within our Logistics and Transportation segment. See further details of our risk management program in “Item 7A. – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Our Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2020, inclusive of our consolidated joint venture accounts, we had $242.8 million of “Cash and cash equivalents” on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We believe our cash positions, our cash flows from operating activities, our free cash flow after dividends and remaining borrowing capacity on our credit facilities (discussed below in “Short-term Liquidity”) are adequate to allow us to manage our day-to-day cash requirements and anticipated obligations as discussed further below. Our liquidity and capital resources are managed on a consolidated basis. We have the ability to access the Partnership’s liquidity, subject to the limitations set forth in the Partnership Agreement and any restrictions contained in the covenants of the Partnership’s debt agreements, as well as the ability to contribute capital to the Partnership, subject to any restrictions contained in the covenants of our debt agreements. On a consolidated basis, our ability to finance our operations, including funding capital expenditures and acquisitions, meeting our indebtedness obligations, refinancing or repaying our indebtedness, meeting our collateral requirements, and to pay dividends declared by our board of directors will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our ability to generate cash is subject to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These include commodity prices and ongoing efforts to manage operating costs and maintenance capital expenditures, as well as general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors. For additional discussion on recent factors impacting our liquidity and capital resources, please see “Recent Developments – Response to Current Market Conditions”. We are entitled to the entirety of distributions made by the Partnership on its equity interests. The actual amount we declare as distributions depends on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the level of our capital expenditures, future business prospects, compliance with our debt covenants and any other matters that our board of directors deems relevant. The Partnership’s debt agreements may restrict or prohibit the payment of distributions if the Partnership is in default or threat of default. If the Partnership cannot make distributions to us, we may be limited in our ability, or unable, to pay dividends on our common stock or Preferred Shares. In addition, so long as any of our Preferred Shares are outstanding, certain common stock distribution limitations exist. 70 On a consolidated basis, our main sources of liquidity and capital resources are internally generated cash flows from operations, borrowings under the TRC Revolver, the TRP Revolver, and the Partnership’s accounts receivable securitization facility (the “Securitization Facility”) and access to debt and equity capital markets. We supplement these sources of liquidity with joint venture arrangements and proceeds from asset sales. For companies involved in hydrocarbon production, transportation and other oil and gas related services, the capital markets have experienced and may continue to experience volatility. Our exposure to adverse credit conditions includes our credit facilities, cash investments, hedging abilities, customer performance risks and counterparty performance risks. Short-term Liquidity Our short-term liquidity on a consolidated basis as of February 12, 2021, was: _________________________________ Other potential capital resources associated with our existing arrangements include: A portion of our capital resources are allocated to letters of credit to satisfy certain counterparty credit requirements. These letters of credit reflect our non-investment grade status, as assigned to us by Moody’s and S&P. They also reflect certain counterparties’ views of our financial condition and ability to satisfy our performance obligations, as well as commodity prices and other factors. Working Capital Working capital is the amount by which current assets exceed current liabilities. On a consolidated basis, at the end of any given month, accounts receivable and payable tied to commodity sales and purchases are relatively balanced, with receivables from customers being offset by plant settlements payable to producers. The factors that typically cause overall variability in our reported total working capital are: (i) our cash position; (ii) liquids inventory levels and valuation, which we closely manage; (iii) changes in payables and accruals related to major growth capital projects; (iv) changes in the fair value of the current portion of derivative contracts; (v) monthly swings in borrowings under the Partnership’s Securitization Facility; and (vi) major structural changes in our asset base or business operations, such as certain organic growth capital projects and acquisitions or divestitures. Working capital as of December 31, 2020 decreased $104.8 million compared to December 31, 2019. The decrease was primarily attributable to the reduction in held for sale assets as a result of the closing of the Delaware crude system sale, which was effective December 1, 2019, and an increase in the current liability position of our derivative contracts, partially offset by lower payables for capital expenditures. Based on our anticipated levels of operations and absent any disruptive events, we believe that our internally generated cash flow, borrowings available under the TRC Revolver, the TRP Revolver and the Partnership’s Securitization Facility and proceeds from debt and equity offerings, as well as joint ventures and/or asset sales, should provide sufficient resources to finance our operations, capital expenditures, long-term debt obligations, collateral requirements and quarterly cash dividends for at least the next twelve months. 71 Long-term Financing Our long-term financing consists of potentially raising funds through long-term debt obligations, the issuance of common stock, preferred stock, or joint venture arrangements. In February 2018, we formed three development joint ventures (“DevCo JVs”) with investment vehicles affiliated with Stonepeak Infrastructure Partners (“Stonepeak”), which committed a maximum of approximately $960 million of capital to the DevCo JVs. As of December 31, 2020, total contributions from Stonepeak to the DevCo JVs were $911.6 million and are included in noncontrolling interests. Additionally, we serve as operator of our consolidated subsidiary, Grand Prix Pipeline LLC (the “Grand Prix Joint Venture”), in which Blackstone Energy Partners (“Blackstone”) owns a 25% interest. As of December 31, 2020, total contributions from funds managed by Blackstone to the Grand Prix Joint Venture were $347.4 million and are included in noncontrolling interests. In April 2019, we closed on the sale of a 45% interest in Targa Badlands to GSO for $1.6 billion in cash. Growth capital of Targa Badlands after the sale is funded on a pro rata ownership basis. Targa Badlands pays a minimum quarterly distribution (“MQD”) to GSO and Targa , with GSO having a priority right on such MQDs. Additionally, GSO’s capital contributions would have a liquidation preference upon a sale of Targa Badlands. Targa Badlands is a discrete entity and the assets and credit of Targa Badlands are not available to satisfy the debts and other obligations of Targa or its other subsidiaries . As of December 31, 2020, the contributions from GSO were $75.7 million for growth capital expenditures. In the second quarter of 2019, Williams exercised its initial option to acquire a 20% equity interest in Train 7 and subsequently executed a joint venture agreement with us. Certain fractionation-related infrastructure for Train 7, including storage caverns and brine handling, was funded and is owned 100% by Targa. As of December 31, 2020, the contributions from Williams were $29.9 million. From time to time, we issue long-term debt securities, which we refer to as senior notes. Our senior notes issued to date, generally have similar terms other than interest rates, maturity dates and redemption premiums. We consolidate the debt of the Partnership with that of our own; however, we do not have the contractual obligation to make interest or principal payments with respect to the debt of the Partnership. Our debt obligations do not restrict the ability of the Partnership to make distributions to us. Our Credit Agreement has restrictions and covenants that may limit our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. See Note 8 – Debt Obligations for more information regarding our debt obligations. The majority of our debt is fixed rate borrowings; however, we have some exposure to the risk of changes in interest rates, primarily as a result of the variable rate borrowings under the TRC Revolver, the TRP Revolver and the Partnership’s Securitization Facility. We may enter into interest rate hedges with the intent to mitigate the impact of changes in interest rates on cash flows. As of December 31, 2020, we did not have any interest rate hedges. We or the Partnership may retire or purchase various series of our outstanding debt through cash purchases and/or exchanges for other debt, in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. In January 2019, the Partnership issued $750.0 million of 6½% Senior Notes due July 2027 and $750.0 million of 6⅞% Senior Notes due January 2029, resulting in total net proceeds of $1,486.6 million. The net proceeds from the issuance were used to redeem in full the Partnership’s outstanding 4⅛% Senior Notes due 2019, at par value plus accrued interest through the redemption date, with the remainder used for general partnership purposes, which included repayment of borrowings under the TRP Revolver. In November 2019, the Partnership issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 5½% Senior Notes due March 2030, resulting in net proceeds of $990.8 million. The net proceeds from the issuance were used to repay borrowings under the TRP Revolver and for general partnership purposes. During the first half of 2020, the Partnership repurchased a portion of its outstanding senior notes on the open market, paying $239.8 million plus accrued interest to repurchase $303.3 million of the notes. The repurchases resulted in a $61.1 million net gain, which included the write-off of $2.4 million in related debt issuance costs. In August 2020, the Partnership issued $1.0 billion of 4⅞% Senior Notes due 2031, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $991 million. A portion of the net proceeds from the issuance were used to fund the August Tender Offer and redemption payments for the 6¾% Notes, with the remainder used for repayment of borrowings under the TRP Revolver. 72 We accepted for purchase all the notes that were validly tendered as of the early tender date, which totaled $262.1 million and redeemed the remaining aggregate principal amount of the 6¾% Notes, which totaled $318.0 million. We recorded a loss due to debt extinguishment of $13.7 million comprised of $11.1 million premiums paid and a write-off of $2.6 million of debt issuance costs. In November 2020, the Partnership redeemed the $559.6 million remaining balance of its 5¼% Senior Notes due 2023 with available liquidity under the TRP Revolver. As a result, we recorded a loss due to debt extinguishment of $1.8 million related to a write-off of debt issuance costs. In February 2021, the Partnership issued $1.0 billion of 4% Senior Notes due 2032, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $992 million. A portion of the net proceeds from the issuance were used to fund the concurrent cash tender offer (the “January Tender Offer”) and subsequent redemption payment for the Partnership’s 5⅛% Senior Notes due 2025 (the “5⅛% Notes”), with the remainder used for repayment of borrowings under the TRP Revolver and the TRC Revolver. Additionally, TPL issued notices of redemption for all of the outstanding TPL 4¾% Senior Notes due 2021 and TPL 5⅞% Senior Notes due 2023. These notes will be redeemed on February 22, 2021 with available liquidity under the TRP Revolver. As of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, the aggregate principal amount outstanding of our senior notes and other various long-term debt obligations, including unamortized premiums, debt issuance costs and non-current liabilities of finance leases, was $7,387.1 million and $7,440.2 million. To date, our debt balances and our subsidiaries’ debt balances have not adversely affected our operations, ability to grow or ability to repay or refinance indebtedness. For additional information about our debt-related transactions, see Note 8 - Debt Obligations to our consolidated financial statements. For information about our interest rate risk, see “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Interest Rate Risk.” On September 20, 2018, we entered into an equity distribution agreement (the “September 2018 EDA”), pursuant to which we may sell through our sales agents, at our option, up to an aggregated amount of $750.0 million of our common stock (the “2018 ATM Program”). Such shares of common stock were registered for sale under our May 2016 Shelf and the related prospectus supplement filed in September 2018. The May 2016 Shelf expired in May 2019. Accordingly, in May 2019, we filed (i) the May 2019 Shelf, (ii) a new prospectus supplement to continue the 2017 ATM Program and (iii) a new prospectus supplement to continue the 2018 ATM Program. During 2020, no shares of common stock were issued under either the May 2017 EDA or the September 2018 EDA. As a result, we have $382.1 million and $750.0 million remaining under the May 2017 EDA and September 2018 EDA as of December 31, 2020. Compliance with Debt Covenants As of December 31, 2020, both we and the Partnership were in compliance with the covenants contained in our various debt agreements. Cash Flow Cash Flows from Operating Activities The primary drivers of cash flows from operating activities are (i) the collection of cash from customers from the sale of NGLs, natural gas and other petroleum commodities, as well as fees for processing, gathering, export, fractionation, terminaling, storage and transportation, (ii) the payment of amounts related to the purchase of NGLs, natural gas and crude oil (iii) changes in payables and accruals related to major growth capital projects; and (iv) the payment of other expenses, primarily field operating costs, general and administrative expense and interest expense. In addition, we use derivative instruments to manage our exposure to commodity price risk. Changes in the prices of the commodities we hedge impact our derivative settlements as well as our margin deposit requirements on unsettled futures contracts. Net cash provided by operations increased in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily due to higher operating margin, partially offset by an increase in interest payments as a result of higher average borrowings and lower cash received from settlement of hedging transactions. 73 Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities decreased in 2020 compared to 2019, primarily due to lower cash outlays for major growth capital projects of $1,926.2 million, resulting from the completion of construction of Grand Prix, Train 6, Train 7, and additional processing plants and associated infrastructure in the Permian Basin in 2019 and early 2020. The change is also attributable to proceeds of $134.1 million received from the sale of our Delaware crude system in 2020 and a $264.1 million decrease in our contributions to unconsolidated affiliates primarily due to the completion of GCX Pipeline in 2019. Cash Flows from Financing Activities In 2020, net cash used in financing activities was primarily due to net distributions to noncontrolling interests and payments of dividends to our common and Series A preferred shareholders, redemption of the Preferred Units and partial repurchase of our Series A Preferred Stock. Our distributions to noncontrolling interests are higher than our contributions from noncontrolling interests in 2020, primarily due to completion of major growth capital projects in 2019. In 2019, we realized a net source of cash from financing activities primarily due to the sale of ownership interests in Targa Badlands and Train 7, net increase of debt outstanding and net contributions from noncontrolling interests. The result was partially offset by payments of dividends and distributions, as well as the final contingent consideration payment associated with our purchase of Outrigger Delaware Operating, LLC, Outrigger Southern Delaware Operating, LLC and Outrigger Midland Operating, LLC (together, the “Permian Acquisition”). As part of the Permian Acquisition, which closed in March 2017, we were required to make potential earn-out payments, subject to certain performance-linked measures and other conditions. In May 2019, we made the final earn-out payment of $317.1 million. Additionally, during 2019, we issued 6½% Senior Notes due 2027, 6⅞% Senior Notes due January 2029 and 5½% Senior Notes due March 2030 , with the use of proceeds primarily to repay the Partnership’s revolving credit facility and to redeem 4⅛% Senior Notes due November 2019, resulting in net increases in debt outstanding. We received net contributions from noncontrolling interests primarily from Stonepeak and Blackstone to fund growth projects. Common Stock Dividends The following table details the dividends declared and/or paid by us to common shareholders for 2020: 74 Preferred Dividends Our Series A Preferred has a liquidation value of $1,000 per share and bears a cumulative 9.5% fixed dividend payable quarterly 45 days after the end of each fiscal quarter. Cash dividends of $92.7 million were paid to holders of the Series A Preferred during the year ended December 31, 2020. As of December 31, 2020, cash dividends accrued for our Series A Preferred were $22.9 million, which were paid on February 12, 2021. Capital Expenditures The following table details cash outlays for capital projects for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019: During 2020, we invested $597.9 million in growth capital expenditures, net of contributions from noncontrolling interests and including net contributions to investments in unconsolidated affiliates. We currently estimate that in 2021 we will invest approximately $350 to $450 million in net growth capital expenditures for announced projects. Future growth capital expenditures may vary based on investment opportunities. We expect that 2021 maintenance capital expenditures, net of noncontrolling interests, will be approximately $ 130 million. Total growth capital expenditures were lower for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, primarily due to lower spending on growth capital investments, as a significant portion of our major projects began full service in 2019, including Grand Prix, Train 6 and additional processing plants and associated infrastructure in the Permian, partially offset by spending related to Train 7 and Train 8. Total maintenance capital expenditures were lower for 2020 as compared to 2019 , primarily due to timing of maintenance projects. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2020, there were $69.8 million in surety bonds outstanding related to various performance obligations. These are in place to support various performance obligations as required by (i) statutes within the regulatory jurisdictions where we operate and (ii) counterparty support. Obligations under these surety bonds are not normally called, as we typically comply with the underlying performance requirement. We have invested in entities that are not consolidated in our financial statements. For information on our obligations with respect to these investments, as well as our obligations with respect to related letters of credit, see Note 7 – Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates and Note 8 – Debt Obligations. 75 Contractual Obligations In addition to disclosures related to debt and lease obligations, contained in our “Consolidated Financial Statements” beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report, the following is a summary of certain contractual obligations over the next several years: Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The accounting policies and estimates discussed below are considered by management to be critical to an understanding of our financial statements because their application requires the most significant judgments from management in estimating matters for financial reporting that are inherently uncertain. See the description of our accounting policies in the notes to the financial statements for additional information about our critical accounting policies and estimates. Depreciation of Property, Plant and Equipment and Amortization of Intangible Assets Depreciation of our property, plant and equipment is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Our estimate of depreciation incorporates assumptions regarding the useful economic lives and residual values of our assets. The determination of useful lives of property, plant and equipment requires us to make various assumptions, including our expected use of the asset and the supply of and demand for hydrocarbons in the markets served, normal wear and tear of facilities, and the extent and frequency of maintenance programs. We amortize the costs of our intangible assets in a manner that closely resembles the expected benefit pattern of the intangible assets or on a straight-line basis, where such pattern is not readily determinable, over the periods in which we benefit from services provided to customers. At the time assets are placed in service or acquired, we believe such assumptions are reasonable; however, circumstances may develop that would cause us to change these assumptions, which would change our depreciation/amortization amounts prospectively. 76 Impairment of Long-Lived Assets, including Intangible Assets We evaluate long-lived assets, including intangible assets, for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate our carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable, including changes to our estimates that could have an impact on our assessment of asset recoverability. Asset recoverability is measured by comparing the carrying value of the asset or asset group with its expected future pre-tax undiscounted cash flows. Individual assets are grouped at the lowest level for which the related identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. These cash flow estimates require us to make judgments and assumptions related to operating and cash flow results, economic obsolescence, the business climate, contractual, legal and other factors. If the carrying amount exceeds the expected future undiscounted cash flows, we recognize a non-cash pre-tax impairment charge equal to the excess of net book value over fair value as determined by quoted market prices in active markets or present value techniques if quotes are unavailable. The estimated cash flows used to assess recoverability of our long-lived assets and measure fair value of our asset groups are derived from current business plans, which are developed using near-term price and volume projections reflective of the current environment and management's projections for long-term average prices and volumes. In addition to near and long-term price assumptions, other key assumptions include volume projections, operating costs, timing of incurring such costs and the use of an appropriate terminal value and discount rate. Any changes we make to these projections and assumptions could result in significant revisions to our evaluation of recoverability of our long-lived assets and the recognition of additional impairments. Price Risk Management (Hedging) Our net income and cash flows are subject to volatility stemming from changes in commodity prices and interest rates. In an effort to reduce the volatility of our cash flows, we have entered into derivative financial instruments to hedge the commodity price associated with a portion of our expected natural gas, NGL, and condensate equity volumes, future commodity purchases and sales, and transportation basis risk. One of the factors that can affect our operating results each period is the price assumptions used to value our derivative financial instruments, which are reflected at their fair values on the balance sheet. We determine the fair value of our derivative instruments using present value methods or standard option valuation models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets. Changes in the methods or assumptions we use to calculate the fair value of our derivative instruments could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements that will affect us, see Note 3 – Significant Accounting Policies in our Consolidated Financial Statements.