********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

An investment in our common stock involves various risks, including those mentioned below and those that are discussed from time to time in our periodic filings with the SEC. Investors should carefully consider these risks, along with the other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. There may be additional risks of which we are currently unaware, or which we currently consider immaterial. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and value of our common stock. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS AND THE FINANCIAL SERVICES INDUSTRY. Our revenues are based on the market value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to fluctuation caused by factors outside of our control. 20 Page 12 We derive our revenues primarily from investment advisory services provided by our subsidiaries to individual and institutional investors. Our investment advisory fees typically are calculated as a percentage of the market value of the assets under our management. As a result, our revenues are dependent on the value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to substantial fluctuation due to many factors, including: • Investment Performance. If the investment performance of our managed investment portfolios is less than that of our competitors or applicable third-party benchmarks, we could lose existing and potential clients and suffer a decrease in assets under management. Poor performance relative to other competing products tends to result in decreased sales and increased redemptions with corresponding decreases in our revenues. • General Financial Market Declines. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from advisory fees on managed investment portfolios. A downturn in financial markets would cause the value of assets under our management to decrease, and may also cause investors to withdraw their investments, thereby further decreasing the level of assets under our management. • Investment Concentration. The allocation of investment products for assets under management within market segments or strategies may impact associated fees that can vary depending on product offerings. • Investor Mobility. Our investors generally may withdraw their funds at any time, without advance notice and with little to no significant penalty. Any redemptions and other withdrawals from, or shifting among, our investment portfolios could reduce our assets under management. These could be caused by investors reducing their investments in our portfolios in general or in the market segments in which we focus; investors taking profits from their investments; and portfolio risk characteristics, which could cause investors to move assets to other investment managers . • Capacity Constraints. Prolonged periods of strong relative investment performance and/or strong investor inflows has resulted in, and may result in, capacity constraints within certain strategies, which can lead to, among other things, the closure of those strategies to new investors. • Investing Trends. Changes in investing trends, particularly investor preference for passive or alternative investment products as well as increasing investor preference for environmentally and socially responsible investment products, and changes in retirement savings trends, may reduce interest in our products and may alter our mix of assets under management. • Interest Rate Changes. Investor interest in and the valuation of our fixed income and multi-asset investment portfolios are affected by changes in interest rates. • Geo-Political Exposure. Our managed investment portfolios may have significant investments in markets that are subject to risk of loss from political or diplomatic developments, government policies, wars, conflicts or civil unrest (such as the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the threat that Russia’s military aggression may expand beyond Ukraine, and the recent conflicts in the Middle East), trade wars or tariffs, currency fluctuations, illiquidity and capital controls, and changes in legislation related to ownership limitations. A decrease in the value of our assets under management, or an adverse change in their composition, particularly in market segments where our assets are concentrated, could have a material adverse effect on our investment advisory fees and revenues. For any period in which revenues decline, net income and operating margins will likely decline by a greater proportion because certain expenses will be fixed over that finite period and may not decrease in proportion to the decrease in revenues. A majority of our revenues are based on contracts with collective investment funds that are subject to termination without cause and on short notice. We provide investment advisory, distribution, and other administrative services to collective investment funds under various agreements. Investment advisory services are provided to each T. Rowe Price collective investment fund under individual investment management agreements, which can be terminated on short notice. In addition, the Board of each T. Rowe Price U.S. mutual fund must annually approve the terms of the investment management and service agreements. If a T. Rowe Price collective investment fund seeks to lower the fees that we receive or terminate its contract with us, we would experience a decline in fees earned from the collective investment funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. 20 Page 13 We operate in an intensely competitive industry. Competitive pressures may result in a loss of clients and their assets or compel us to reduce the fees we charge to clients, thereby reducing our revenues and net income. We are subject to competition in all aspects of our business from other financial institutions. Some of these financial institutions have greater resources than we do and may offer a broader range of financial products across more markets. Some competitors operate in a different regulatory environment than we do which may give them certain competitive advantages in the investment products and portfolio structures that they offer. We compete with other providers of investment advisory services primarily based on the availability and objectives of the investment products offered, investment performance, fees and related expenses, and the scope and quality of investment advice and other client services. Some institutions have proprietary products and distribution channels that make it more difficult for us to compete with them. Substantially all of our investment products are available without sales or redemption fees, which means that investors may be more willing to transfer assets to competing products. If our clients reduce their investments with us, and we are not able to attract new clients, our AUM, revenue and earnings could decline. The market environment in recent years has led investors to increasingly favor lower fee passive investment products. As a result, investment advisors that emphasize passive products have gained and may continue to gain market share from active managers like us. While we believe there will always be demand for strong performing active management, we cannot predict how much market share these competitors will gain. Furthermore, many aspects of the asset management industry are seeing increased regulatory activity and scrutiny, in particular related to environmental, social, and governance ("ESG") practices and related matters, transparency and unbundling of fees, inducements, conflicts of interest, risk management, cybersecurity, technology, privacy and data protection, diversity, equity and inclusion, and compensation. We may respond to these regulatory matters or may be impacted by these actions in a manner different from our competitors, which may impact our AUM or result in the loss of clients and their assets. As part of our continued efforts to attract and retain clients, we develop and launch new products and services, which may require expenditure of resources and may expose us to new regulatory or compliance requirements as well as increased risk of operational or client service errors. In the event that we decide to reduce the fees we charge for investment advisory services in response to competitive pressures, which we have done selectively in the past, revenues and operating margins could be adversely impacted. Fee reductions may vary depending on strategy and product offerings, which could result in investment rebalancing or reallocation adversely impacting revenues and operating margins. The failure or negative performance of products offered by competitors may cause our products, which are similar, to be impacted irrespective of our performance. Many competitors offer similar products to those offered by us, and the failure or negative performance of competitors’ products could lead to a loss of confidence in similar products we offer, irrespective of the performance of such products. Any loss of confidence in a product type could lead to withdrawals, redemptions and liquidity issues in such products, which may cause our AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. Our operations are complex and a failure to properly execute operational processes could have an adverse effect on our reputation and decrease our revenues. We provide global investment management and administrative services to our clients. In certain cases, we rely on third-party service providers for the execution and delivery of these services. There can be no assurance that these service providers will properly perform these processes or that there will not be interruptions in services from these third parties. Failure to properly execute or oversee these services could have an adverse impact on our business, financial results and reputation, and subject us to regulatory sanctions, fines, penalties, or litigation. New investment strategies, investment vehicles, distribution channels, advancement in technology and digital wealth and distribution tools, or other evolutions of or additions to our business may increase the risk that our existing systems may not be adequate to control the risks introduced by such changes. Business changes may require us to update our processes or technology and may increase risk to meeting our business objectives. In addition, our existing information systems and technology platforms might not be able to accommodate our 20 Page 14 business operations, and the cost of maintaining or upgrading such systems might increase from its current level. If any of these scenarios were to arise, it could disrupt our operations, increase our expenses or result in financial exposure, regulatory inquiry, litigation or reputational damage. Our business model is dependent on our personnel, who as part of their roles support disclosure and internal controls, compliance, supervision, technology and training to provide comfort that our activities do not violate applicable guidelines, rules and regulations or adversely affect our clients, counterparties or us. We also rely on the personnel of others involved in our business, such as third-party service providers, intermediaries or other vendors. Our personnel and the personnel of others involved in our business may make errors or engage in fraudulent or malicious activities, that are not always immediately detected or that cannot be easily remediated, which may disrupt our operations, cause losses, lead to regulatory fines or sanctions, litigation, or otherwise damage our reputation. The quantitative models we use may contain errors, which could result in financial losses or adversely impact product performance and client relationships. We use various quantitative models to support investment decisions and investment processes, including those related to portfolio management and portfolio risk analysis, as well as those related to client investment or savings advice or guidance. Any errors in the underlying models or model assumptions could have unanticipated and adverse consequences on our business and reputation. Any damage to our reputation could harm our business and lead to a loss of revenues and net income or access to capital. We have spent many years developing our reputation for integrity, strong investment performance, and superior client service. Our brand is a valuable intangible asset, but it is vulnerable to a variety of threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or even impossible to remediate, if damaged. Regulatory inquiries and rumors can tarnish or substantially damage our reputation, even if those inquiries are satisfactorily addressed. Actual or perceived failure to adequately address the ESG expectations, or failure to manage conflicts of interests of our various stakeholders could lead to a tarnished reputation and loss of client assets or harm our access to capital. Furthermore, ESG issues have been the subject of increased focus by regulators and stakeholders. Any inability to meet applicable requirements or expectations may adversely impact our reputation. Additionally, various stakeholders have divergent views on ESG matters, including in the countries in which we operate and invest, as well as states and localities where we serve public sector clients. These differences increase the risk that any action or lack thereof by us concerning ESG will be perceived negatively by some stakeholders and could adversely impact our reputation and business. Our global presence and investments on behalf of our clients around the world could also lead to heightened scrutiny and criticism in an increasingly fragmented geopolitical landscape. Misconduct by our employees or third-party service providers could likewise adversely impact our reputation and lead to a loss of client assets. While we maintain policies, procedures, and controls to reduce the likelihood of unauthorized activities, we are subject to the risk that our associates or third parties acting on our behalf may circumvent controls or act in a manner inconsistent with our policies and procedures. Real or perceived conflicts between our clients’ interests and our own, as well as any fraudulent activity or other exposure of client assets or information, may impair our reputation and subject us to litigation or regulatory action. Any damage to our brand could impede our ability to attract and retain clients and key personnel, and reduce the amount of assets under our management, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. Failure to comply with client contractual requirements and/or investment guidelines could result in costs of correction, damage awards or regulatory fines and penalties against us and loss of revenues due to client terminations. Many of the agreements under which we manage assets or provide products or services specify investment guidelines or requirements, such as adherence to investment restrictions or limits, that we are required to observe in the provision of our services. Laws and regulations impose similar requirements for certain investment products. While we maintain various compliance procedures and other controls to seek to prevent, detect and correct such errors, any failure to comply with these guidelines or requirements could result in damage to our reputation or in our clients seeking to recover losses, withdrawing their assets or terminating their contracts. Regulators likewise may commence enforcement actions for violations of such requirements, which could lead to fines and penalties against us. Any such events could cause our revenues and profitability to decline, and significant errors for which we are 20 Page 15 responsible could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Our expenses are subject to significant fluctuations that could materially decrease net income. Our operating results are dependent on the level of our expenses, which can vary significantly for many reasons, including: • expenses incurred in connection with our multi-year strategic plan to strengthen our long-term competitive position; • variations in the level of total compensation expense due to changes in, among other things, bonuses, stock-based awards, employee benefit costs due to regulatory or plan design changes, labor market conditions, our employee count and mix, competitive factors, market performance, and inflation; • changes in the level of our advertising and promotion expenses, including the costs of expanding investment advisory services to investors outside of the U.S. and further penetrating U.S. distribution channels; • expenses and capital costs incurred to maintain and enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure, such as technology assets, depreciation, amortization, and research and development; • changes in the costs incurred for third-party service providers that perform certain administrative and operating services, including as a result of changes in market conditions, labor costs and inflation; • changes in expenses that are correlated to our assets under management, such as distribution and servicing fees; • a future impairment of investments that is recognized in our consolidated balance sheet; • a future impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets that is recognized in our consolidated balance sheet; • unanticipated material fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates applicable to the costs of our operations abroad; • unanticipated costs incurred to protect investor accounts and client goodwill; • future changes to legal and regulatory requirements and potential litigation; and • disruptions of infrastructure and third-party services such as communications, power, cloud services, transfer agent, investment management, trading, and accounting systems. Under our agreements with the U.S. mutual funds, we charge the funds certain administrative fees and related expenses based upon contracted terms. If we fail to accurately estimate our underlying expense levels or are required to incur expenses relating to the U.S. mutual funds that are not otherwise paid by the funds, our operating results will be adversely affected. While we are under no obligation to provide financial support to any sponsored investment products, any financial support provided would reduce capital available for other purposes and may have an adverse effect on revenues and net income. Our hedging strategies utilized to mitigate risk may not be effective, which could impact our earnings. We employ hedging strategies related to our supplemental savings plan in order to hedge the liability related to the plan. In the event that our hedging strategies are not effective, the resulting impact may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional tax liabilities may impact our financial position or the marketability of the products and services we offer our clients. We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income-based taxes and complex tax regimes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. We cannot predict future changes in the tax regulations to which we are subject, and any such changes could have a material impact on our tax liability or result in increased costs of our tax compliance efforts. Additionally, changes in the status of tax deferred investment options, including retirement plans, tax-free municipal bonds, the capital gains and corporate dividend tax rates, and other individual and corporate tax rates could cause 20 Page 16 investors to view certain investment products less favorably and reduce investor demand for products and services we offer, which could have an adverse effect on our assets under management and revenues. Examinations and audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods, which could impact our financial results. Based on the global nature of our business, from time to time we are subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes (and, in certain cases, interest, fines, or penalties). We have a process to evaluate whether to record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due, and adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, however, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our estimates and impact our financial results. We have contracted with third-party financial intermediaries that distribute our investment products and such relationships may not be available or profitable to us in the future. Third-party financial intermediaries we contract with generally offer their clients various investment products in addition to, and in competition with, our investment products, and have no contractual obligation to encourage investment in our products. It would be difficult for us to acquire or retain the management of those assets without the assistance of the intermediaries, and we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain an adequate number of investment product offerings and successful distribution relationships. In addition, some investors rely on third-party financial planners, registered investment advisers, and other consultants or financial professionals to advise them on the choice of an investment adviser and investment products. These professionals and consultants may favor a competing investment product for reasons we cannot control. We cannot assure that our investment products will be among their recommended choices in the future. Further, their recommendations can change over time and we could lose their recommendation and their clients' assets under our management. Increasing competition for these distribution and sales channels as well as regulatory changes and initiatives may cause our distribution costs to rise, could cause further cost increases in the future, or could otherwise negatively impact the distribution of our products. Mergers, acquisitions, and other ownership or management changes could also adversely impact our relationships with these third-party intermediaries. As a result of these changes, more of our revenues may be concentrated with fewer intermediaries, which may impact our dependence on these intermediaries. A failure to maintain our third-party distribution and sales channels, or a failure to maintain strong business relationships with our distributors and other intermediaries, may impair our distribution and sales operations. Any inability to access and successfully sell our products to clients through such third-party channels could have a negative effect on our level of AUM and adversely impact our business. Moreover, we can provide no assurance that we will continue to have access to the third-party financial intermediaries that currently distribute our products on favorable terms or at all, or that we will continue to have the opportunity to offer all or some of our existing products through them. The presence of any of the adverse conditions discussed above would reduce revenues and net income, possibly by material amounts. Natural disasters and other unpredictable events could adversely affect our operations and financial results. The occurrence of extreme events, such as armed conflicts, terrorist attacks, epidemic, pandemic or disease outbreaks (such as the Covid-19 pandemic), infrastructure failures, natural disasters or extreme weather events (which may increase in intensity or frequency as a result of climate change), and other events outside of our control could adversely affect our revenues, expenses, and net income by: • decreasing investment valuations in, and returns on, the investment portfolios that we manage; • causing disruptions in national or global economies that decrease investor confidence and make investment products generally less attractive; • incapacitating or inflicting losses of lives among our employees; • interrupting our business operations or those of critical service providers or other providers; 20 Page 17 • affecting the availability of infrastructure upon which our operations depend, such as road networks and electrical power grids; • triggering technology delays or failures; and • requiring substantial capital expenditures and operating expenses to remediate damage, replace our facilities, and restore our operations. A significant portion of our business operations are concentrated in the Baltimore, Maryland region; Colorado Springs, Colorado; Forth Worth, Texas; New York City, New York; and in London, England. In addition, we maintain offices with associates in many other global locations, including Sydney, Australia; Hong Kong; Singapore; Tokyo, Japan; and Luxembourg, some of which are in areas that are particularly vulnerable to extreme events. We have developed various backup systems and contingency plans, but we cannot be assured that those preparations will be adequate in all circumstances that could arise, or that material interruptions and disruptions will not occur. We also rely to varying degrees on outside service providers for service delivery in addition to technology and disaster contingency support, and we cannot be assured that these service providers will be able to perform in an adequate and timely manner. If we lose the availability of any associates, or, if we are unable to respond adequately to such an event in a timely manner, we may be unable to service our clients or timely resume our business operations, which could lead to financial losses, a tarnished reputation and loss of clients that could result in a decrease in assets under management, lower revenues, and materially reduced net income, particularly if our responses to such events are less adequate than those of our competitors. Our business, financial condition, and results of operation may be adversely affected by the coronavirus or other global pandemics. Pandemics, epidemics or disease outbreaks, as well as measures enacted to prevent their spread, may create significant volatility, uncertainty and disruption to the global economy and may impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, the coronavirus pandemic has adversely affected global financial markets and impacted global supply chains. Concerns and uncertainty regarding pandemics, epidemics or disease outbreaks could lead to increased volatility in global capital and credit markets, adversely affect our operations, key executives and other personnel, clients, investors, service providers and other vendors, suppliers, and other third parties, and negatively impact our assets under management, revenues, income, business and operations. Since our revenue is based on the market value and composition of the assets under our management, the impact of such events on global financial markets and our clients’ investment decisions could adversely affect our revenue and operating results. Furthermore, while we have in place robust and well-established plans for operational resiliency and business continuity that address the potential impact to our associates and our facilities, and a comprehensive suite of technologies which enable our associates to work remotely and conduct business, and to date while we have been successful in navigating these challenges, no assurance can be given that the steps we have taken will continue to be effective or appropriate. Additionally, we must effectively ensure a safe working environment for associates working onsite in our offices, and adequately manage the post-pandemic transition from remote to onsite or a hybrid working environment. In the event that our associates become incapacitated by the coronavirus, our business operations may be impacted, which could lead to reputational and financial harm. Our investment income and asset levels may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in our investment portfolio. Separately from the investments we manage for our clients, we currently have a substantial investment portfolio in a variety of asset classes including equities, fixed income products, multi-asset products, financial instruments, real estate and alternative investments. Investments in these products are generally made to establish a track record, meet purchase size requirements for trading blocks or demonstrate economic alignment with other investors in our funds. All of these investments are subject to investment market risk, and our non-operating investment income could be adversely affected by the realization of losses upon the disposition of our investments or the recognition of significant impairments or unrealized losses on these investments. In addition, related investment income has fluctuated significantly over the years depending upon the performance of our corporate investments, including the impact of market conditions and interest rates, and the size of our corporate money market and longer-term collective investment fund holdings. Fluctuations in other investment income are expected to occur in the future. Redemptions and other withdrawals from, or shifting among, client portfolios also reduce our investment income. These changes could be caused by investors reducing their investments in client portfolios in general or in the market segments in which we focus; investors taking profits from their investments; and portfolio risk 20 Page 18 characteristics, which could cause investors to move assets to other investment managers. Poor performance relative to other competing products tends to result in decreased sales and increased redemptions with corresponding decreases in our revenues, which may have a material adverse effect on us. The soundness of other financial services institutions could adversely affect us or the client portfolios we manage. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We, and the client portfolios that we manage, have exposure to many different counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry. Many of these transactions expose us or such client portfolios to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty. While we regularly conduct assessments of counterparty risks, the risk of non-performance by such parties is subject to sudden swings in the financial and credit markets. Such non-performance could produce a financial loss for us or the portfolios we manage. We may review and pursue strategic transactions in order to maintain or enhance our competitive position and these could pose risks. From time to time, we consider strategic opportunities, including potential acquisitions, dispositions, consolidations, organizational restructurings, joint ventures or similar transactions, any of which may impact our business. We cannot be certain that we will be able to identify, consummate and successfully complete such transactions, and no assurance can be given with respect to the timing, likelihood or business effect of any possible transaction. These initiatives typically involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges to our ongoing business operations. In addition, acquisitions and related transactions involve risks, including unanticipated problems regarding integration of investor account and investment security recordkeeping, additional or new regulatory requirements, operating facilities and technologies, and new employees; adverse effects on our earnings in the event acquired intangible assets or goodwill become impaired; distracting management and other key personnel from our existing businesses; and the existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or otherwise known by us prior to closing a transaction. We own a 23% investment in UTI Asset Management Company Ltd ("UTI"), an Indian asset management company, and we may consider non-controlling minority investments in other entities in the future. We may not realize future returns from such investments or any collaborative activities that may develop in the future. On December 29, 2021, we completed our acquisition of OHA. Important ongoing integration-related risks, including that the anticipated benefits of the transaction may not be fully realized, or may take longer to realize than expected, or that the integration may cost more or take longer than expected, could adversely impact our operating results. Furthermore, a significant portion of OHA's revenue is derived from performance fees on investment advisory agreements and carried interest from general partner interests in affiliated private investment funds. Generally, OHA is entitled to a performance fee and carried interest under these agreements only in cases where the related portfolio investment return exceeds agreed-upon relative or absolute investment return thresholds, and there can be no assurance that these thresholds will be met. Climate change-related risks could adversely affect our business, products, operations and clients, which may cause our AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. Our business and those of our clients could be impacted by climate change-related risks. Climate change may present risk to our business through changes in the physical climate or from the process of transitioning to a lower-carbon economy. Climate-related physical risks arise from the direct impacts of a changing climate in the short- and long-term. Such risks may include an increase in the intensity and frequency of extreme weather events, changes in temperature and rising sea level, which may damage infrastructure and facilities, increase our energy costs, negatively impact our workforce, as well as disrupt connectivity or supply chains. Climate-related transition risks arise from exposure to the transition to a lower-carbon economy through policy, regulatory, technology and market changes. For instance, new regulations or guidance relating to climate change, as well as the perspectives of stakeholders regarding climate change, may impact our business and reputation, which could increase costs on our business. Climate-related physical and transition risks could impact us both directly and indirectly through adverse impacts to our clients and the global economy in general, including as a result of interruptions to infrastructure and our operations, declines in asset values and stranded assets, changes in client preferences, increased regulatory and compliance costs and significant business disruptions. Any of these risks may have a material adverse effect on our AUM, revenue and earnings. 20 Page 19 We are exposed to risks arising from our international operations. We operate in a number of jurisdictions outside of the United States. Our international operations require us to comply with the legal and regulatory requirements of various foreign jurisdictions and expose us to political environments and risks that can compare less favorably than those in the United States. Our foreign business operations are also subject to the following risks: • difficulty in managing, operating, and marketing our international operations; • the inability to transact in various investments or to repatriate the proceeds from our investments from countries outside the U.S.; • the potential nationalization of our property or that of the companies in our investment portfolios; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates which may result in substantial negative effects on assets under our management, revenues, expenses, and assets in our U.S. dollar based financial statements; and • significant adverse changes in international legal and regulatory environments. Our financial condition and liquidity would be adversely affected by losses on our seed capital and co-investments. We have capital held in investment products we manage in a variety of asset classes, including equities, fixed income products, multi-asset products, financial instruments, real estate and alternative investments. Investments in these products are generally made to establish a track record, meet purchase size requirements for trading blocks or demonstrate economic alignment with other investors in our funds. Adverse market conditions may result in the need to write down the value of these seed capital and co-investments, which may adversely affect our results of operations or liquidity. HUMAN CAPITAL RISKS. Our success depends on our key personnel and our investment performance and financial results could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. Our success depends on our highly skilled personnel, including our portfolio managers, investment analysts, sales and client relationship personnel, technology and operations professionals, and corporate officers, many of whom have specialized expertise and extensive experience in our industry. Professionals with financial services experience across functional areas are in demand, and we face significant competition for highly qualified employees. Generally, our associates can terminate their employment with us at any time, with most required to provide little to no notice. Recently we have adopted more significant notification requirements for certain key positions. As a result of these new requirements, some employees or candidates may be less willing to continue their employment with us or join our firm. We cannot assure that we will be able to attract or retain key personnel. Due to the global nature of our investment advisory business, our key personnel may have reasons to travel to regions susceptible to higher risk of civil unrest, organized crime or terrorism, and we may be unable to ensure the safety of personnel traveling to these regions. We have near- and long-term succession planning processes, including programs to develop our future leaders, which are intended to address future talent needs and minimize the impact of losing key talent. However, in order to retain or replace our key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation, which would decrease net income. The loss of key personnel could also damage our reputation and make it more difficult to attract and retain employees and investors, and in turn cause our assets under management to decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. LEGAL AND REGULATORY RISKS. Compliance within a complex regulatory environment imposes significant financial and strategic costs on our business, and non-compliance could result in fines and penalties. There is uncertainty associated with the regulatory and compliance environments in which we operate. Our business is subject to extensive and complex, overlapping and/or conflicting, and frequently changing rules, regulations, policies and legal interpretations, around the world. Additionally, over the past several years the pace 20 Page 20 and scope of new rules, regulations, policies and legal interpretations has increased both in the U.S. and globally, which requires additional resources and expense in order for us to digest and institute process to comply. If we are unable to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to criminal and civil liability, the suspension of our employees, fines, penalties, sanctions, injunctive relief, exclusion from certain markets, or temporary or permanent loss of licenses or registrations necessary to conduct our business. A regulatory proceeding, even if it does not result in a finding of wrongdoing or sanctions, could consume substantial amount of time, management attention and expense. Any regulatory investigation and any failure to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations could severely damage our reputation, adversely affect our ability to conduct business and decrease revenue and net income, and potentially result in complex and costly litigation. Legal and regulatory developments in the mutual fund, retirement and investment advisory industry could increase our regulatory burden, impose significant financial and strategic costs on our business, and cause a loss of, or impact the servicing of, our clients and fund shareholders. Our regulatory environment is frequently altered by new laws and regulations and by revisions to, and evolving interpretations of, existing regulations. New laws and regulations present areas of uncertainty susceptible to alternative interpretations; regulators and prospective litigants may not agree with reasoned interpretations we adopt. Future changes could require us to modify or curtail our investment offerings and business operations which may impact our expenses and profitability. Additionally, some laws and regulations may not directly apply to our business but may impact the capital markets, service providers or have other indirect effects on our ability to provide services to our clients. Potential impacts of current or proposed legal or regulatory requirements include, without limitation, the following: • There has been increasing focus on the framework of the U.S. retirement system at the federal and state levels. We could experience adverse business impacts if legislative and regulatory changes limit retirement plans to certain products and services, or favor certain investment vehicles, that we do not offer, materially limit retirement savings opportunities or foster substantial outflows from retirement savings plans for non-retirement purposes. • There has been substantial regulatory and legislative activity at federal and state levels regarding standards of care for financial services firms, related to both retirement and taxable accounts. Actions taken by applicable regulatory or legislative bodies may impact our business activities and increase our costs. In October 2023, the U.S. Department of Labor proposed a new rule updating the definition of an investment advice fiduciary under ERISA (“Retirement Security Rule”), which would apply to retirement plans and accounts that comprise a majority of our accounts. We are monitoring the rulemaki ng process and the potential impact the Retirement Security Rule may have on our business. • The Commodity Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC") regulation may limit the ability of certain sponsored investment products to use futures, swaps, and other derivatives. We have registered certain subsidiaries with the CFTC, subjecting us to additional regulatory requirements and costs, but also providing us additional flexibility to utilize such products. Nonetheless, there are still certain limitations on our investment products due to CFTC rules. • There has been increased global regulatory focus on the manner in which interm ediaries are paid for distribution of mutual funds or other collective investments funds. Changes to long-standing market practices related to fees or enhanced disclosure requirements may negatively impact sales of mutual funds or other collective investments funds by intermediaries, especially if such requirements are not applied to other investment products. • We remain subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations (and associated judicial decisions) related to privacy, data collection and use, including the EU’s GDPR and the CCPA; cybersecurity; current and emerging technology, including generative AI technology; storage, localization, retention and destruction of data; disclosure, transfer, availability, security and integrity of data; notification of regulators and/or impacted parties regarding adverse data-related events, including the SEC’s cybersecurity disclosure rules; and other similar matters that can concern the data of our clients and employees. Requirements in these areas continue to expand and evolve throughout the globe, most commonly in ways that increase the complexity and costs of compliance. For example, in addition to the EU's GDPR data protection rules, we also are or may become subject to or affected by additional country, federal and state laws, regulations and guidance impacting consumer privacy, such as the California Consumer Privacy Act. Future changes to laws 20 Page 21 and regulations in these areas could impose significant limitations on our operations, require changes to our business, or restrict our collection, use or storage of data or related technologies, which may increase our compliance expenses and make our business more costly or less efficient to conduct. • Regulators have imposed certain clearing, margin, trade reporting, electronic trading and recordkeeping requirements on market participants aimed at market stabilization and risk reduction, such as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in the U.S. and the European Market Infrastructure Regulation in the EU. T hese requirements have introduced operational complexity and additional costs to derivatives portfolios. • The revised Markets in Financial Instruments Directive ("MiFID II Directive") and Regulation ("MiFIR") (together “MiFID II”) applies across the EU and member states of the European Economic Area beginning on January 3, 2018. Implementation of MiFID II has significantly impacted both the structure and operation of EU financial markets. Some of the main changes introduced under MiFID II include applying enhanced disclosure requirements, enhancing conduct of business and governance requirements, broadening the scope of pre and post trade transparency, increasing transaction reporting requirements, transforming the relationship between client commissions and research, and further regulation of trading venues. Compliance with MiFID II has increased operational complexity and increased our costs. For example, we began to pay for third-party investment research used by our UK-based investment manager, T. Rowe Price International Ltd, in 2018, and we pay for all the research needs of our investment professionals globally. • New laws or regulations involving ESG integration and disclosure may materially impact the asset management industry. For example, the EU’s Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation imposes mandatory ESG disclosure obligations on asset managers and other financial markets participants, requiring all covered firms to disclose how financial products integrate sustainability risks in the investment process, including whether they consider adverse sustainability impacts, and sustainability-related information for products promoting sustainable objectives. The availability of such disclosures may impact the investment decisions of European investors. Furthermore, federal regulators, as well as state legislatures and regulators in the U.S. have proposed or adopted laws and regulations to pursue similar initiatives, such as the SEC’s proposed climate disclosure rules . Conversely, some U.S. states have adopted or proposed legislation or otherwise have taken official positions restricting or prohibiting state government entities from doing certain business with entities they believe are discriminating against particular industries or considering ESG factors in their investment processes and proxy voting. As jurisdictions globally continue to develop legal frameworks on ESG and sustainability regulations, our industry and business may face increasingly fragmented regulatory frameworks, which may result in complex and potentially conflicting compliance obligations and legal and regulatory uncertainty . We cannot predict the nature of future changes to the legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our business, nor the extent of the impacts that will result from current or future proposals. However, any such changes are likely to increase the costs of compliance and the complexity of our operations, as well as result in changes to our product or service offerings. The changing regulatory landscape may also impact a number of service providers that provide services to us and, to the extent such service providers alter their operations or increase their fees, it may impact our expenses or those of the products we offer. We may become involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that may not be covered by insurance. We are subject to regulatory and governmental inquiries and civil litigation. An adverse outcome of any such proceeding could involve substantial financial penalties and costs. From time to time, various claims against us arise in the ordinary course of business, including employment-related claims. There also has been an increase in litigation and in regulatory investigations in the financial services industry in recent years, including client claims, class action suits, and government actions claiming substantial monetary damages and penalties. We carry insurance in amounts and under terms that we believe are appropriate, however, we cannot be assured that our insurance will cover every liability and loss to which we may be exposed, or that our insurance policies will continue to be available at acceptable terms and fees. Certain insurance coverage may not be available or may be prohibitively expensive in future periods. As our insurance policies come up for renewal, we may need to assume higher deductibles or co-insurance liabilities, or pay higher premiums, which would increase our expenses and reduce our net income. 20 Page 22 Net capital requirements may impede the business operations of our subsidiaries. Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to net capital requirements imposed by various federal, state, and foreign authorities. Any significant change in the required net capital, an operating loss, or an extraordinary charge against net capital could adversely affect the ability of our subsidiaries to expand or maintain their operations if we were unable to make additional investments in them, which could impact our earnings. TECHNOLOGY RISKS. We require significant quantities and types of technology to operate our business and would be adversely affected if we or our third party providers fail to maintain adequate technology to conduct or expand our operations or if our technology became inoperative or obsolete. We depend on significant quantities of technology and, in many cases, highly specialized, proprietary or third-party licensed technology to support our business functions, including among others: • securities analysis, • securities trading, • portfolio management, • client service, • accounting and internal financial reporting processes and controls, • data security and integrity, and • regulatory compliance and reporting. All of our technology systems, including those provided or operated by third-party service providers, are vulnerable to disability or failures due to cyberattacks, natural disasters or extreme weather events (which may increase in frequency or intensity as a result of climate change), power failures, acts of war or terrorism, sabotage, coding errors, and other causes. A suspension or termination of vendor-provided software licenses or related support, upgrades, and maintenance could cause system delays or interruption. Although we believe we have robust business and disaster recovery plans, if our technology systems, including those provided or operated by third-party service providers, were to fail and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could lead to a loss of clients and could harm our reputation. A technological breakdown or disruption in services could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and controls and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to regulatory action and liability to our clients. In addition, our continued success depends on our ability to effectively integrate operations across many systems and/or countries, and to adopt new or adapt existing technologies to meet client, industry, and regulatory demands, including, for example, generative AI technology. We might be required to make significant capital expenditures to maintain a competitive technology stack. If we are unable to upgrade our technology stack in a timely fashion, we may lose clients and fail to maintain regulatory compliance, which could affect our results of operations and severely damage our reputation. A cyberattack or a failure to implement effective information and cybersecurity policies, procedures and capabilities could disrupt operations and cause financial losses. We are dependent on the effectiveness of the information and cybersecurity policies, procedures and capabilities we maintain to protect our systems and data. An externally caused data security incident, such as a cyberattack, a phishing scam, virus, ransomware attack, denial-of-service attack, or an attack launched from within our systems could compromise the integrity of confidential client or competitive information and materially interrupt our business operations. In addition, our third-party service providers and other intermediaries, with which we conduct busi ness, could also be subject to cyberattacks or other data security events, and we cannot ensure that such third parties have all appropriate controls in place to protect the integrity and confidentiality of our data that is in their custody or to allow them to continue their business operations, including their services to us, in a timely manner. There have been increasing numbers of publicized cybersecurity incidents in recent years impacting financial services firms as well as firms in other industries. Our use of third-party service providers and cloud technologies 20 Page 23 could heighten this risk. Should the technology operations on which we rely be compromised, we may have to make significant investments to upgrade, repair or replace our technology infrastructure or third-party service providers and may not be able to make such investments on a timely basis. Although we maintain insurance coverage,  under terms that we believe are reasonable, prudent and adequate for the purpose of our business, it may be insufficient to protect us against all losses and costs stemming from breaches of security, cyberattacks and other types of unlawful activity, or any resulting disruptions from such events. We could be subject to losses if we fail to properly safeguard and maintain confidential data. As part of our normal operations, we maintain and transmit confidential data about our clients, associates and other parties, as well as proprietary data relating to our business operations. Our business operations rely on such data being available as and when needed and not being subjected to loss or unauthorized access or alteration. We maintain a system of internal controls designed to provide reasonable assurance that both inadvertent errors and fraudulent activity, including misappropriation of assets, fraudulent financial reporting, and unauthorized access to sensitive or confidential data, is either prevented or detected in a timely manner. We also leverage cloud-based solutions for the transmission and storage of data. Our systems, or those of the third-party service providers we use to maintain or transmit such data, could be accessed by unauthorized users or corrupted by computer viruses or other malicious software code. Additionally, authorized persons could inadvertently or intentionally release or alter confidential or proprietary data. Any of these types of events could, among other things: • seriously damage our reputation, • result in a loss of confidence in our business and products, • allow competitors access to our proprietary business data, • materially impair our business operations, • subject us to liability for a failure to safeguard data of clients, associates, and other parties, • result in the termination of contracts by our existing clients, • subject us to disclosure obligations, regulatory investigations, actions or fines, and potential litigation involving regulators, stockholders, or other members of the public, and • require significant capital and operating expenditures to investigate and remediate the breach, and organizational costs to mitigate against future incidents. Furthermore, if any person, including any of our associates, negligently disregards or intentionally overrides or circumvents our established controls with respect to confidential data, or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and/or criminal prosecution in one or more jurisdictions. As noted above, we are subject to numerous laws and regulations governing privacy and the protection of personal or other data in the U.S., EU and other jurisdictions we operate in . Any failure to properly safeguard and maintain confidential data creates risk that we could be found to be in violation of laws and regulations and subject us to disclosure obligations, regulatory investigations, actions or fines, and litigation.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

OVERVIEW. Our 2023 revenues and net income are derived primarily from investment advisory services provided to individual and institutional investors in a broad range of investment solutions across equity, fixed income, multi-asset, and alternative capabilities. We also provide certain investment advisory clients with related administrative services, including distribution, mutual fund transfer agent, accounting, and shareholder services; participant recordkeeping and transfer agent services for defined contribution retirement plans; brokerage; trust services; and non-discretionary advisory services through model delivery. Investment advisory revenues depend largely on the total value and composition of assets under our management. Accordingly, fluctuations in financial markets and in the composition of assets under management affect our revenues and results of operations. We incur significant expenditures to develop new products and services and improve and expand our capabilities and distribution channels in order to attract new investment advisory clients and additional investments from our existing clients. These efforts often involve costs that precede any future revenues that we may recognize from an increase to our assets under management. The investment management industry has been evolving and industry participants are facing several challenging trends including passive investments taking market share from traditional active strategies; continued downward fee pressure; demand for new investment vehicles to meet client needs; and an ever-changing regulatory landscape. In this regard, we have ample liquidity and resources that allow us to take advantage of attractive growth opportunities. We are investing in key capabilities, including investment professionals, distribution professionals, technologies, and new product offerings in order to provide our clients with strong investment management expertise and service. On December 29, 2021, we completed our acquisition of Oak Hill Advisors, L.P., a leading alternative credit manager, and other entities that had common ownership (collectively, OHA). We acquired 100% of the equity interests of Oak Hill Advisors, L.P., 100% of the equity interests in entities that make co-investments in certain affiliated private investment funds (the "co-investment entities") and a majority of the equity interests in entities that have interests in general partners of affiliated private investment funds and are entitled to a disproportionate allocation of income (the "carried interest entities"). The acquisition accelerates our expansion into alternatives investment markets and complements our existing global platform and ongoing strategic initiatives in our core investments and distribution capabilities. Alternative credit strategies continue to be in demand from investors across the globe seeking attractive yields and risk-adjusted returns. MARKET TRENDS. Major U.S. stock indexes produced strong gains in 2023. Due in part to generally favorable corporate earnings, a resilient economy, and increased investor interest in artificial intelligence, equities were led by a relatively small group of high-growth, technology-oriented mega-cap companies. The market overcame bearish factors such as regional bank turmoil in the spring; uncertainty about Congress and President Biden agreeing to raise the debt ceiling; geopolitical tensions; and a sluggish Chinese economic recovery amid property sector distress. Arguably the most significant factor affecting the U.S. economy and the financial markets throughout the year was rising interest rates in response to elevated inflation. The Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates four times through the end of July, lifting the fed funds target rate to the 5.25% to 5.50% range. Long-term U.S. Treasury yields climbed for much of the year, peaking in October, before falling sharply in response to weaker-than-expected inflation and labor market data. Equities rallied through year-end, as Fed officials projected at their mid-December policy meeting that there could be three quarter-point rate cuts in 2024. Developed non-U.S. equity markets produced strong gains in U.S. dollar terms; returns to U.S. investors were lifted by a weaker dollar versus major European currencies. In Europe, equity markets advanced broadly. UK shares gained about 14% but lagged various markets in the European Union. In developed Asia, equities in Japan led the region with a gain of about 21%, helped by the continuation of a highly stimulative monetary policy. Hong Kong stocks declined nearly 15%, hurt in part by Chinese economic and property market weakness. Emerging equity markets produced solid gains but underperformed stocks in developed markets in U.S. dollar terms. Most markets in Latin America produced very strong returns. In the emerging Europe, Middle East, and Africa 20 Page 29 (EMEA) region, market performance was largely positive. In emerging Asia, several markets rose sharply, but Chinese shares tumbled more than 11%. Returns of several major equity market indexes for 2023 are as follows: (1) Returns exclude dividends Global bond returns produced positive returns in U.S. dollar terms in 2023, thanks to a late-year drop in longer-term interest rates in many countries. In the U.S., Treasury bill yields rose as the Federal Reserve lifted the fed funds target rate to the 5.25% to 5.50% range by the end of July and kept the target range steady through the end of the year. Intermediate- and long-term U.S. Treasury yields climbed to multi-year highs by late October. The 10-year U.S. Treasury note yield reached the 5.00% level for the first time in about 16 years. Yields plunged in the last two months of the year, however, amid signs of disinflation, labor market softening, and expectations for Fed rate cuts in 2024. The 10-year U.S. Treasury note yield started and ended the year at 3.88%. In the U.S. investment-grade bond universe, sector performance was broadly positive. Corporate bonds produced very strong gains. Mortgage-backed, commercial mortgage-backed, and asset-backed securities performed in line with the broad market index. U.S. Treasury securities trailed with milder gains. Tax-free municipal bonds outpaced the broad taxable bond market. High yield corporate bonds, which are less sensitive to interest rate movements and more sensitive to credit-related trends, strongly outperformed higher-quality bonds. Bonds in developed non-U.S. markets produced positive returns in U.S. dollar terms, helped by a weaker dollar versus major European currencies. In Europe, long-term government bond yields climbed as major central banks raised short-term rates for most of the year. Long-term yields retreated with U.S. Treasury yields in the fourth quarter as inflation pressures eased and the major central banks kept short-term rates steady. In Japan, long-term Japanese government bond (JGB) yields were fairly steady in the first half of the year but climbed from July through late October. During that timeframe, the Bank of Japan (BoJ) increased the flexibility of its yield curve control policy, and the 10-year JGB yield approached 1.00%—its highest level in more than a decade. Yields retreated in November and December. Emerging markets bonds produced strong returns in dollar terms. Bonds denominated in local currencies fared better than dollar-denominated issues, as most emerging markets currencies strengthened versus the U.S. dollar. Returns of several major bond market indexes for 2023 are as follows: ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT. Assets under management ended 2023 at $1,444.5 billion, an increase of $169.8 billion from the end of 2022. This increase was primarily driven by net market appreciation and income, net of distributions not reinvested, of $251.6 billion, offset by net cash outflows of $81.8 billion. 20 Page 30 The following table details changes in our assets under management by asset class during the last three years: (1) The underlying AUM of the multi-asset portfolios have been aggregated and presented in this category and not reported in the equity and fixed income columns. (2) The alternatives asset class includes strategies authorized to invest more than 50% of its holdings in private credit, leveraged loans, mezzanine, real assets/CRE, structured products, stressed/distressed, non-investment grade CLOs, special situations, business development companies, or that have absolute return as its investment objective. Generally, only those strategies with longer than daily liquidity are included. Unfunded capital commitments of $11.6 billion at December 31, 2023 and $10.6 billion at December 31, 2022 and are not reflected in AUM above. (3) Alternatives net cash flows include outflows of $2.6 billion in 2023 and $2.6 billion in 2022 that represent investment manager-driven distributions. (4) Reflects net distributions not reinvested of $2.9 billion in 2023, $3.3 billion in 2022, and $6.5 billion in 2021. Investment advisory clients outside the U.S. accounted for 8.6% of our assets under management at December 31, 2023 and 9.1% at December 31, 2022. Assets under management in our target date retirement products, which are included in the multi-asset column shown above, were $408.4 billion at December 31, 2023, compared with $334.2 billion at December 31, 2022, and $391.1 billion at December 31, 2021. Net inflows into these products were $13.1 billion in 2023, $11.3 billion in 2022, and $11.3 billion in 2021. Our net cash outflows in 2023 were driven primarily by our growth-oriented equity strategies sourced from Americas financial intermediaries and institutional clients. These outflows were partially offset by net cash inflows in our multi-asset strategies, predominately our target date retirement products, and alternative strategies. From a geography perspective, net outflows were predominantly from U.S. clients invested in equity strategies though all regions experienced net outflows. For 2022, net outflows were driven primarily by our growth-oriented equity strategies sourced from U.S. intermediaries. These outflows were partially offset by net cash inflows in our international fixed income, multi-asset, and alternative strategies. From a geographical perspective, the Americas and EMEA regions experienced net outflows predominantly in equity in both regions, while APAC had positive net flows. Net cash flows for 2021 reflect net outflows from domestic equity as well as domestic fixed income. These outflows also reflect the redemption of about $2.5 billion from fixed income to fund the cash portion of our OHA acquisition. These outflows were partially offset by cash inflows in our multi-asset franchise and international fixed income. From a geographical perspective, the Americas and EMEA regions experienced net outflows predominantly in equity in both regions, while APAC had net inflows. We provide strategic investment advice solutions for certain portfolios. These advice solutions, which the vast majority is overseen by our multi-asset division, may include strategic asset allocation, and in certain portfolios, asset selection and/or tactical asset allocation overlays. We also offer advice solutions through retail separately 20 Page 31 managed accounts and separately managed accounts model delivery. As of December 31, 2023, total assets in these solutions were $499 billion, of which $487 billion are included in our reported assets under management in the tables above. We provide participant accounting and plan administration for defined contribution retirement plans that invest in the firm's U.S. mutual funds, collective investment trusts and funds managed outside of the firm's complex. As of December 31, 2023, our assets under administration were $245 billion, of which nearly $146 billion were assets we manage. INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE (1) . Strong investment performance and brand awareness is a key driver to attracting and retaining assets—and to our long-term success. The following table presents investment performance for the one-, three-, five-, and 10-years ended December 31, 2023. Past performance is no guarantee of future results. 20 Page 32 As of December 31, 2023, 46 of 86 (53.5%) of our rated U.S. mutual funds (across primary share classes) received an overall rating of 4 or 5 stars. By comparison, 32.5% of Morningstar's fund population is given a rate of 4 or 5 stars (6) . In addition, 64.0% (6) of AUM in our rated U.S. mutual funds (across primary share classes) ended 2023 with an overall rating of 4 or 5 stars. (1) The investment performance reflects that of T. Rowe Price sponsored mutual funds and composites AUM. (2) Source: © 2024 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved. The information contained herein: 1) is proprietary to Morningstar and/or its content providers; 2) may not be copied or distributed; and 3) is not warranted to be accurate, complete, or timely. Neither Morningstar nor its content providers are responsible for any damages or losses arising from any use of this information. (3) Source: Morningstar. Primary share class only. Excludes money market mutual funds, funds with an operating history of less than one year, T. Rowe Price passive funds, and T. Rowe Price funds that are clones of other funds. The top chart reflects the percentage of T. Rowe Price funds with 1 year, 3 year, 5 year, and 10 year track record that are outperforming the Morningstar category median. The bottom chart reflects the percentage of T. Rowe Price funds AUM that has outperformed for the time periods indicated. Total Fund AUM included for this analysis includes $323B for 1 year, $323B for 3 years, $323B for 5 years, and $320B for 10 years. (4) Passive Peer Median was created by T. Rowe Price using data from Morningstar. Primary share class only. Excludes money market mutual funds, funds with an operating history of less than one year, funds with fewer than three peers, T. Rowe Price passive funds, and T. Rowe Price funds that are clones of other funds. This analysis compares T. Rowe Price active funds with the applicable universe of passive/index open-end funds and ETFs of peer firms. The top chart reflects the percentage of T. Rowe Price funds with 1 year, 3 year, 5 year, and 10 year track record that are outperforming the passive peer universe. The bottom chart reflects the percentage of T. Rowe Price funds AUM that has outperformed for the time periods indicated. Total AUM included for this analysis includes $307B for 1 year, $272B for 3 years, $271B for 5 years, and $263B for 10 years. (5) Composite net returns are calculated using the highest applicable separate account fee schedule. Excludes money market composites. All composites compared to official GIPS composite primary benchmark. The top chart reflects the percentage of T. Rowe Price composites with 1 year, 3 year, 5 year, and 10 year track record that are outperforming their benchmarks. The bottom chart reflects the percentage of T. Rowe Price composite AUM that has outperformed for the time periods indicated. Total AUM included for this analysis includes $1,280B for 1 year, $1,264B for 3 years, $1,255B for 5 years, and $1,222B for 10 years. (6) The Morningstar Rating™ for funds is calculated for funds with at least a three-year history. Exchange-traded funds and open-ended mutual funds are considered a single population for comparative purposes. It is calculated based on a Morningstar Risk-Adjusted Return measure that accounts for variation in a managed product's monthly excess performance, placing more emphasis on downward variations and rewarding consistent performance. Morningstar gives its best ratings of 5 or 4 stars to the top 32.5% of all funds (of the 32.5%,10% get 5 stars and 22.5% get 4 stars). The Overall Morningstar Rating™ is derived from a weighted average of the performance figures associated with a fund’s 3, 5, and 10 year (if applicable) Morningstar Rating™ metrics. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The following table and discussion set forth information regarding our consolidated financial results for 2023, 2022 and 2021 on a U.S. GAAP basis and a non-GAAP basis. The non-GAAP basis adjusts for the impact of our consolidated sponsored investment products, the impact of market movements on the supplemental savings plan liability and related economic hedges, investment income related to certain other investments, acquisition-related amortization and costs, impairment charges, and certain nonrecurring charges and gains, if any. We completed the acquisition of OHA on December 29, 2021. As a result, our results of operations for 2021 does not include any financial results of OHA. 20 Page 33 (1) The percentage change is not meaningful (n/m). (2) Capital allocation-based income represents the change in accrued carried interest. (3) See the reconciliation to the comparable U.S. GAAP measures at the end of the Results of Operations section of this Management's Discussion and Analysis. (4) Average assets under management for 2021 does not include the impact of the fee-basis assets under management acquired in the OHA acquisition. Results Overview - 2023 as compared to 2022 Investment advisory revenues. Investment advisory fees are earned based on the value and composition of our assets under management, which change based on fluctuations in financial markets and net cash flows. As our average assets under management increase or decrease in a given period, the level of our investment advisory fee revenue for that same period generally fluctuates in a similar manner. Our annualized effective fee rates can be impacted by market or cash flow related shifts among asset and share classes, price changes in existing products, and asset level changes in products with tiered-fee structures. Investment advisory revenues earned in 2023 decreased 3.7% over the comparable 2022 period as average assets under our management decreased $36.1 billion, or 2.6%, to $1,362.3 billion. The average annualized effective fee rate earned on our assets under management was 42.2 basis points in 2023, compared with 42.7 basis points earned in 2022. Our effective fee rate has declined largely due to a mix shift toward lower fee asset classes and vehicles as a result of net equity outflows, partially offset by higher market 20 Page 34 returns and higher performance-based fees during the same period. The average annualized fee rate earned on our assets under management was 42.2 basis points for the fourth quarter of 2023. Operating expenses. Operating expenses were $4,474.3 million in 2023, an increase of 8.7% over the comparable 2022 period. The impact of market movements on the supplemental savings plan liability accounted for about 70% of the increase in U.S. GAAP operating expenses. Non-operating income has a corresponding increase due to our economic hedge of the liability. On a non-GAAP basis, operating expenses were $4,260.7 million, a 4.2% increase over the comparable 2022 period. The increase in our non-GAAP operating expenses was primarily driven by higher costs across compensation and benefits, accrued carried interest related compensation expense, technology, facility, advertising, and professional fees. These increases were offset in part by higher capitalized labor, lower stock-based compensation, and a non-recurring recovery of general and administrative costs incurred in 2022. We currently estimate our 2024 non-GAAP operating expenses, excluding non-GAAP accrued carried interest compensation, will grow in the range of 3%-5% from the comparable 2023 amount of $4,190.7 million. We could elect to adjust our expense growth should unforeseen circumstances arise, including significant market movements. Operating margin. Our operating margin in 2023 was 30.7%, compared with 36.6% in 2022. The decrease in our operating margin in 2023 compared with 2022 is primarily driven by a decrease in investment advisory revenue as a result of lower average assets under management and higher operating expenses. Diluted earnings per share. Diluted earnings per share was $7.76 in 2023 as compared to $6.70 in 2022. On a non-GAAP basis, diluted earnings per share was $7.59 in 2023 as compared to $8.02 in 2022. The increase in 2023 GAAP basis diluted earnings per share from 2022 was primarily due to net investment income in 2023 as compared to net investment losses in 2022. These increases were partially offset by lower operating income and a higher effective tax rate. For non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, the decrease in 2023 was primarily due to lower operating income and a higher effective tax rate. These decreases were offset by net investment income earned on our cash and discretionary investment portfolio in 2023 as compared to net investment losses in 2022. See our non-GAAP reconciliations later in this Management's Discussion and Analysis section. Results Overview - 2022 as compared to 2021 Investment advisory revenues. Investment advisory fees are earned based on the value and composition of our assets under management, which change based on fluctuations in financial markets and net cash flows. As our average assets under management increase or decrease in a given period, the level of our investment advisory fee revenue for that same period generally fluctuates in a similar manner. Our annualized effective fee rates can be impacted by market or cash flow related shifts among asset and share classes, price changes in existing products, and asset level changes in products with tiered-fee structures. Investment advisory revenues earned in 2022 decreased 15.9% over the comparable 2021 period as average assets under our management decreased $200.9 billion, or 12.6%, to $1,398.4 billion. For the first half of 2022, we voluntarily waived $9.3 million, or less than 0.2%, of our investment advisory fees from certain of our money market mutual funds, trusts, and other investment portfolios in order to maintain a positive yield for investors. No money market fees were waived in the second half of 2022. The average annualized effective fee rate earned on our assets under management was 42.7 basis points in 2022, compared with 44.4 basis points earned in 2021. Our effective fee rate has declined largely due to a mix shift toward lower fee asset classes and vehicles as a result of market declines and net flows, partially offset by a reduction in money market fee waivers and a higher-than-average effective fee rate earned on our alternative asset class. The average annualized fee rate earned on our assets under management was 42.3 basis points for the fourth quarter of 2022. 20 Page 35 Operating expenses. Operating expenses were $4,114.7 million in 2022, an increase of 3.9% over the comparable 2021 period. Our operating expenses for 2022 include impairment charges of $175.1 million related to certain investment management contract intangible assets whose assessed fair value has declined below their respective carrying values. On a non-GAAP basis, operating expenses were $4,087.8 million, a 6.4% increase over the comparable 2021 period. Our operating expenses for 2022 also include OHA's operating expenses, which primarily impact compensation expense; technology, occupancy, and facility costs; and general, administrative and other costs. The increase in our non-GAAP operating expenses was primarily attributable to the addition of OHA operating expenses; salaries and benefits; severance and other costs associated with the fourth quarter of 2022 workforce reduction action; higher costs related to the ongoing investment in the firm's technology capabilities; higher recordkeeping expenses due to the expanded relationship with FIS; and information services and travel-related costs. These increases were offset in part by lower distribution and servicing costs and lower bonuses. Operating margin. Our operating margin in 2022 was 36.6%, compared with 48.4% in 2021. The decrease in our operating margin in 2022 compared with 2021 is primarily driven by a decrease in investment advisory revenue as a result of lower average assets under management and higher operating expenses. Diluted earnings per share. Diluted earnings per share was $6.70 in 2022 as compared to $13.12 in 2021. On a non-GAAP basis, diluted earnings per share was $8.02 in 2022 as compared to $12.75 for 2021. The decrease in both 2022 GAAP and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share compared to 2021 was primarily driven by lower operating income, net investment losses in 2022 as compared to net investment gains in 2021, and a higher effective tax rate. These decreases were partially offset by lower weighted average outstanding shares. Impairment charges recorded in the fourth quarter of 2022 also impacted the lower operating income that drove the GAAP diluted earnings per share decrease. See our non-GAAP reconciliations later in this Management's Discussion and Analysis section. 20 Page 36 Net revenues (1) n/m - the percentage change is not meaningful. Investment advisory fees. The relationship between the change in average assets under management and the change in investment advisory fee revenue for 2023, 2022 and 2021 are presented above. In 2023, the decline in overall advisory revenues was driven by lower average AUM and a mix shift toward lower fee asset classes and vehicles.  A lower starting AUM and net outflows in 2023 were the primary drivers of a lower average AUM in 2023. These impacts were partially offset by stronger overall market returns in 2023 and $38.3 million of performance-based fees primarily earned on alternative strategy accounts in 2023 compared to an insignificant amount of performance-based fees in 2022. In 2022, volatile markets and net outflows, overall, shifted the asset strategy and share class mix toward lower fee strategies and classes. These drivers were offset in part by a reduction in money market fee waivers and higher-than-average fee rates earned on our alternative asset class. Administrative, distribution, and servicing fees in 2023 were $550.9 million, a decrease of $22.7 million from 2022. The decrease is primarily driven by lower transfer agent servicing activities provided to the T. Rowe Price mutual funds, and lower 12b-1 revenue earned from the Advisor and R share classes of the U.S. mutual funds as a result of lower average assets under management in these share classes. The decrease in 12b-1 revenue is offset entirely by a decrease in the costs paid to third-party intermediaries that source these assets and is reported in distribution and servicing expense. For 2022, lower 12b-1 revenue earned in 2022 primarily on the Advisor and R share classes of the U.S. mutual funds as a result of lower assets under management in these share classes was offset by higher trustee services revenue and transfer agent servicing activities provided to our U.S. mutual funds for retail shareholders. 20 Page 37 Capital allocation-based income increased net revenues by $161.9 million. The 2023 amount includes an increase of $223.2 million in accrued carried interest from investments in affiliated investment funds, partially offset by $61.3 million of non-cash amortization and impairments associated with the difference between the assets' fair value and carrying value on the date they were acquired.  The firm realized carried interest of $109.8 million compared with $87.7 million in the 2022 period.  We recognized corresponding compensation expense of $44.6 million related to total capital allocation-based income, consisting of $70.0 million related to the accrued carried interest offset in part by $25.4 million in amortization and impairment charges. While impairments recognized in 2023 were immaterial, should market and performance conditions deteriorate, additional impairments may be recognized in future periods. Comparatively, capital allocation-based income reduced net revenues by $54.3 million for 2022. This amount includes an increase of $43.7 million in accrued carried interest that was completely offset by $98.0 million of non-cash amortization and impairments, consisting of $53.0 million of non-cash amortization associated with the difference in the acquisition closing date fair value and the carrying value of investments acquired as part of the OHA acquisition (basis difference), and $45.0 million of impairment charges due to reduced incentive fee growth expectations for certain investments in affiliated investment funds that earn capital allocation-based income, which we determined were other-than-temporarily impaired in 2022, and a higher discount rate.  We recognized a corresponding net reduction in compensation expense of $22.9 million related to the total capital allocation-based income that is attributable to the non-controlling interests. This $22.9 million reduction includes $40.5 million related to the amortization and impairment charges offset in part by $17.6 million in compensation expense related to the accrued carried interest. Net revenues are presented after the elimination of $2.1 million for 2023, $2.0 million for 2022, and $5.5 million for 2021, earned from our consolidated sponsored investment products. The corresponding expenses recognized by these consolidated products were also eliminated from operating expenses. 20 Page 38 Operating expenses Compensation and related costs, excluding non-cash amortization of certain acquisition-related retention agreements, capital allocation-based income compensation, and supplemental savings plan were $2,450.7 million, an increase $44.9 million, or 1.9%, compared with 2022. The increase in 2023 was driven by $99.1 million in higher salaries and related benefits as a result of base salary increases in January 2023 and July 2022.  These increases were offset by higher capitalized labor, lower non-cash stock-based compensation, and lower other employee-related costs. The firm employed 7,906 associates at December 31, 2023, an increase of 0.5% from the end of 2022. For 2022, compensation and related costs, excluding non-cash amortization of certain acquisition-related retention agreements, capital allocation-based income compensation, and supplemental savings plan, increased $105.8 million, or 4.6%, as compared with 2021. The 2022 period includes OHA's compensation and related costs. Contributing to the increase was $131.7 million associated with an increase in base salaries and related benefits from higher average headcount and base salary increases in January and July 2022, and a total of $10.8 million in additional costs associated with non-cash stock-based compensation expense. These increases in compensation and related costs were offset in part by a decline in bonuses of $48.6 million. Distribution and servicing costs were $289.9 million for 2023, a decrease of $11.6 million, or 3.8%, compared to  $301.5 million in 2022.  The decrease was primarily driven by lower average assets under management in certain share classes of the U.S. mutual funds that earn 12b-1 fees and SICAVs. These decreases were partially offset by higher costs incurred to distribute certain products through U.S. intermediaries as the average assets under management in these products were higher. For 2022, distribution and services costs were $301.5 million, a decrease of $72.4 million, or 19.4%, compared to $373.9 million for 2021. The decrease was primarily driven by lower average assets under management in certain share classes of the U.S. mutual funds that earn 12b-1 fees. Additionally, lower average assets under management in our international products, including our Japanese Investment Trusts (ITMs) and certain SICAV share classes, contributed to lower distribution costs. Distribution and servicing costs paid to third-party intermediaries that source the assets of certain share classes of our U.S. mutual funds and our international products, such as our Japanese ITMs and SICAVs, are recognized in this expense category. Both of these costs are offset entirely by the revenue we earn and report in net revenues: 20 Page 39 12b-1 revenue recognized in administrative, distribution, and servicing fees for the U.S. mutual funds and investment advisory fee revenue for our international products. Advertising and promotion costs were $114.2 million for 2023, an increase of $16.9 million, or 17.4%, compared with 2022. The increase was primarily driven by higher media advertising and agency costs in 2023 For 2022, advertising and promotion costs were $97.3 million, a decrease of $2.9 million, or 2.9%, compared with 2021. The decrease was primarily driven by a decrease in media advertising spend during 2022, partially offset by higher promotion-related costs. Product and recordkeeping related costs were $291.0 million for 2023, a decrease of $9.1 million, or 3.0%, compared with 2022. The decrease was driven by lower recordkeeping related costs. Product and recordkeeping related costs were $300.1 million for 2022, an increase of $63.8 million, or 27.0%, compared with 2021. Approximately 86% of the increase in 2022 was driven by the recordkeeping costs incurred as part of our expanded relationship with Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. ("FIS") that began in August 2021. These costs incurred were partially offset by a reduction in compensation expenses as a result of the approximately 800 associates who transitioned to FIS in August 2021. Technology, occupancy, and facility costs were $632.6 million for 2023, $560.5 million for 2022, and $484.9 million for 2021. The increases over the last two years were primarily due to ongoing investment in our technology capabilities, including depreciation and hosting solution licenses, and increased office facility costs, mainly related to rent expense associated with a new London office that we began leasing in the second half of 2022 and occupied in September 2023. General, administrative, and other costs were $421.3 million for 2023, $412.2 million for 2022, and $383.6 million for 2021. The increase in 2023 compared to 2022 was primarily due to higher professional fees and travel costs. Partially offsetting these increases was a recovery of $20.8 million in nonrecurring costs that were incurred in 2022. The increase in 2022 as compared to 2021 was primarily due to higher net business-related expenses, including higher travel and information services as well as certain nonrecurring costs incurred during 2022. Partially offsetting this increase were the absence of transaction costs incurred to complete the acquisition of OHA in December 2021 and lower professional and legal fees. Change in fair value of contingent consideration. Our contingent consideration consists of an earnout arrangement as part of the 2021 acquisition of OHA in which additional purchase price may be due to the sellers upon satisfying or exceeding certain defined revenue targets. Each reporting period, we record the fair value of the contingent consideration due under this arrangement. We recognized a reduction in the fair value of the contingent consideration liability of $82.4 million in 2023 and $161.2 million in 2022 as challenging market conditions reduced revenue expectations and increased the discount rates used in the fair value determinations. Acquisition-related amortization and impairment costs primarily relate to the indefinite- and definite-lived intangible assets identified and separately recognized, at fair value, as part of the purchase accounting of the 2021 acquisition of OHA. In 2023, we recognized acquisition-related amortization and impairment costs of $134.2 million, a decrease of $149.3 million or 52.7%, compared with 2022. The decrease from 2022 was primarily driven by an insignificant amount of impairment charges for certain intangibles compared to $175.1 million in 2022. The impairment charges for both periods were the result of reduced growth expectations for both investment management and incentive fees. Specific to 2022, the impairment charges were also impacted by a higher discount rate compared to when the acquisition closed in 2021. The remaining weighted average amortization period for our definite-lived intangible assets is 5.5 years. Should conditions that led us to recognize these impairment charges deteriorate, additional impairments may be recognized in future periods. 20 Page 40 Non-operating income (loss) Non-operating investment income was $504.1 million in 2023 compared to a non-operating loss of $425.5 million in 2022 and non-operating income of $284.6 million in 2021. Non-operating investment activity for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 comprised the following: In 2023, stronger market returns contributed to the increased valuation and gains of our investment portfolio, while higher interest rates increased dividend income earned on our cash equivalents. In 2022, our overall investment portfolio valuations were negatively impacted by market declines caused by the continued elevated inflation, supply chain disruptions, and a more aggressive pace of Federal Reserve interest rate increases. 20 Page 41 The impact of consolidating certain sponsored investment products on the individual lines of our consolidated statements of income for 2023, 2022, and 2021 is as follows: Provision for income taxes The following table reconciles the statutory federal income tax rate to our effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021: (1) State income tax benefits are reflected in the total benefits for net income attributable to redeemable non-controlling interests and stock-based compensation plans activity. (2) Net income attributable to redeemable non-controlling interests represents the portion of earnings held in the firm's consolidated investment products, which are not taxable to the firm despite being included in pre-tax income. Our effective tax rate for 2023 was 26.3%, compared with 25.6% for 2022 and 22.4% for 2021. The increase in our effective tax rate in 2023 from 2022 was primarily due to an increase in the valuation allowances recorded mainly against UK-based deferred tax assets, including net operating losses, and a decrease in discrete tax benefits associated with option exercises and restricted stock vests. These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by a favorable impact of net gains attributable to redeemable non-controlling interests held in our consolidated investment products and state tax liability settlements. For 2022, the increase in our effective tax rate from 2021 was primarily due to the unfavorable impact of net losses attributable to redeemable non-controlling interests held in our consolidated investment products and a reduction in the discrete tax benefits associated with option exercises and restricted stock vests. Furthermore, our effective tax rate was unfavorably impacted by a valuation allowance recorded to recognize only the portion of UK-based deferred tax assets that are more likely than not to be realized. These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by the favorable impacts of the reduction of the effective state tax rate due to the full phase-in of the 2018 Maryland state tax legislation and the remeasurement of the contingent consideration liability. The non-GAAP tax rate primarily adjusts for the impact of the consolidated investment products, including the net income attributable to the redeemable non-controlling interests. Our non-GAAP effective tax rates for 2023, 2022 and 2021 were 27.2% , 24.7%, 22.5%, r espectively. 20 Page 42 Our effective tax rate will continue to experience volatility in future periods due to, among other things, the impact on the stock-based compensation tax benefits recognized from market fluctuations in our stock price and timing of option exercises, changes in the mix of our earnings among countries with differing tax laws, and changes in the valuation allowance of foreign based deferred tax assets. As of December 31, 2023, the total valuation allowance recorded was $102.8 million, of which nearly all is related to UK-based deferred tax assets. We intend to continue maintaining a full valuation allowance on these and future deferred tax assets until there is sufficient evidence to support the reversal of all or some portion of these allowances. Our U.S. GAAP effective tax rate will also be impacted by changes in the proportion of net income that is attributable to our redeemable non-controlling interests and non-controlling interests reflected in permanent equity as well as the remeasurement of the contingent consideration liability. We currently estimate our effective tax rates for the full-year 2024 will be in the range of 23.0% to 27.0% on a GAAP basis, and 23% to 26% on a non-GAAP basis. This range reflects lower expected valuation allowances related to our foreign based deferred tax assets and a lower state rate associated with changes in income apportionment rules in certain jurisdictions. The Organization of Economic Co-operation and Development has issued Pillar Two Model Rules (Pillar Two) introducing a global 15% minimum tax effective January 1, 2024 within certain countries in which we operate. Our preliminary determination is that the Pillar Two implementation is unlikely to have a material impact on the company's future consolidated results of operations, cash flows, and overall financial position. We will continue to monitor and evaluate the impacts of enacted and pending Pillar Two legislation on our operations. NON-GAAP INFORMATION AND RECONCILIATION. We believe the non-GAAP financial measures below provide relevant and meaningful information to investors about our core operating results. These measures have been established in order to increase transparency for the purpose of evaluating our core business, for comparing current results with prior period results, and to enable more appropriate comparison with industry peers. However, non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered a substitute for financial measures calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP and may be calculated differently by other companies. The following schedules reconcile certain U.S. GAAP financial measures for each of the last three years. 20 Page 43 (1) These non-GAAP adjustments remove the impact of acquisition-related amortization and costs, including amortization of intangible assets, the recurring fair value remeasurements of the contingent consideration liability, amortization of acquired investment and non-controlling interest basis differences and amortization of compensation-related arrangements. We believe adjusting for these charges helps the reader's ability to understand our core operating results and to increase comparability period to period. (2) This non-GAAP adjustment removes acquisition-related transactions costs. We believe adjusting for these charges helps the reader's ability to understand our core operating results and to increase comparability period to period. (3) This non-GAAP adjustment removes the compensation expense impact from market valuation changes in the supplemental savings plan liability and the related net gains (losses) on investments designated as an economic hedge against the related liability. Amounts deferred under the supplemental savings plan are adjusted for appreciation (depreciation) of hypothetical investments chosen by participants. We use T. Rowe Price investment products to economically hedge the exposure to these market movements. We believe it is useful to offset the non-operating investment income (loss) recognized on the 20 Page 44 economic hedges against the related compensation expense and remove the net impact to help the reader's ability to understand our core operating results and to increase comparability period to period. (4) These non-GAAP adjustments remove the impact the consolidated sponsored investment products have on our U.S. GAAP consolidated statements of income. Specifically, we add back the operating expenses and subtract the investment income of the consolidated sponsored investment products. The adjustment to operating expenses represents the operating expenses of the consolidated products, net of the elimination of related management and administrative fees. The adjustment to net income attributable to T. Rowe Price represents the net income of the consolidated products, net of redeemable non-controlling interests. We believe the consolidated sponsored investment products may impact the reader’s ability to understand our core operating results. (5) This non-GAAP adjustment represents the other non-operating income (loss) and the net gains (losses) earned on our investment portfolio that are not designated as economic hedges of the supplemental savings plan liability and that are not part of the cash and discretionary investment portfolio. We retain in our non-GAAP measures the investment gains recognized on the cash and discretionary investments as these assets and related income (loss) are considered part of our core operations. We believe adjusting for the remaining non-operating income (loss) helps the reader’s ability to understand our core operating results and increases comparability to prior years. Additionally, we do not emphasize the impact of this portion of non-operating income (loss) when managing and evaluating our performance. (6) The income tax impacts were calculated in order to achieve an overall non-GAAP effective tax rate of 27.2% for 2023, 24.7% for 2022 and 22.5% for 2021. (7) This non-GAAP measure was calculated by applying the two-class method to adjusted net income attributable to T. Rowe Price Group and dividing by the weighted-average common shares outstanding assuming dilution. The calculation of net income allocated to common stockholders is as follows: CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY. During 2023, stockholders’ equity attributable to T. Rowe Price Group, Inc. increased from $8.8 billion to $9.5 billion. Tangible book value increased to $6.5 billion at December 31, 2023 from $5.8 billion at December 31, 2022. Sources of Liquidity We have ample liquidity, including cash and investments in T. Rowe Price products as follows: Our discretionary investment portfolio is comprised primarily of short duration fixed income ETFs, which typically yield higher than money market rates. Of our cash and cash equivalents, $699.0 million at December 31, 2023, and $809.1 million at December 31, 2022 were held by our subsidiaries located outside the U.S. Our cash and discretionary investment portfolio experienced market gains of $140.8 million in 2023 compared to market losses of $24.4 million in 2022. Given the availability of our financial resources and cash expected to be generated through future operations, we do not maintain an available external source of additional liquidity. 20 Page 45 Our seed capital investments are redeemable, although we generally expect to be invested for several years for the products to build an investment performance history and until unrelated third-party investors substantially reduce our relative ownership percentage. The cash and investment presentation on the consolidated balance sheet is based on how we account for the cash or investment. The following table details how our investment interests relate to where they are presented in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2023. (1) The c onsolidated T. Rowe Price investment products are generally those products we provided seed capital at the time of their formation and we have a controlling interest. The $1,311.0 million represents the total value at December 31, 2023 of our interest in the consolidated T. Rowe Price investment products. The total net assets of the T. Rowe Price investment products at December 31, 2023 of $1,905.1 million includes assets of $1,959.3 million, less liabilities of $54.2 million as reflected in the consolidated balance sheet in Item 8. Financial Statements of this Form 10-K. (2) Includes $192.0 million of non-controlling interests in consolidated entities and represents the portion of these investments, held by third parties, that we cannot sell in order to obtain cash for general operations. Our consolidated balance sheet reflects the assets and liabilities of those sponsored investment products we consolidate, as well as redeemable non-controlling interests for the portion of these sponsored investment products that are held by unrelated third-party investors. Although we can redeem our net interest in these sponsored investment products at any time, we cannot directly access or sell the assets held by the products to obtain cash for general operations. Additionally, the assets of these sponsored investment products are not available to our general creditors. Our interest in these sponsored investment products was used as initial seed capital and is recategorized as discretionary when it is determined by management that the seed capital is no longer needed. We assess the discretionary products and, when we decide to liquidate our interest, we seek to do so in a way as to not impact the product and, ultimately, the unrelated third-party investors. Uses of Liquidity We paid $4.88 per share in regular dividends in 2023, an increase of 1.7% over the $4.80 per share paid in 2022. Further, we expended $253.9 million in 2023 to repurchase 2.4 million shares, or 1.1%, of our outstanding common stock at an average price of $104.63 per share. These dividends and repurchases were expended using existing cash balances and cash generated from operations. We will generally repurchase our common stock over time to offset the dilution created by our equity-based compensation plans. During 2021, our Board of Directors declared a special cash dividend of $3.00 per share, or $699.8 million, on June 14, 2021, that was paid on July 7, 2021. Further, on December 29, 2021, we paid approximately $2.5 billion in cash and issued $881.5 million of T. Rowe Price Group, Inc. common shares, approximately 4.4 million shares, to complete the acquisition of OHA. 20 Page 46 Since the end of 2020, we have returned $6.2 billion to stockholders through stock repurchases, our regular quarterly dividends, and a special dividend of $3.00 per share in 2021, as follows: We anticipate property and equipment expenditures for the full-year 2024 to be about $487 million. More than one-half is planned for technology initiatives, while the remaining will be facility related, including the completion of our new corporate headquarters. We expect to fund our anticipated capital expenditures with operating cash flows and other available resources. The following tables summarize the cash flows for 2023, 2022 and 2021, that are attributable to T. Rowe Price Group, our consolidated sponsored investment products, and the related eliminations required in preparing the statement. 20 Page 47 20 Page 48 Operating activities Operating activities attributable to T. Rowe Price Group during 2023 provided cash flows of $2,058.6 million, a  decrease of $381.7 million from $2,440.3 million during 2022. This decrease in cash flows provided by operating activities attributable to T. Rowe Price Group was primarily driven by a lower add-back of $986.5 million in non-cash items. The impact of these non-cash adjustments was offset in part by a $230.8 million increase in net income combined with $365.5 million from the cash settlement timing of our assets and liabilities. These non-cash adjustments were primarily driven by $567.3 million in net investment gains in 2023 compared to $314.0 million of net investment losses in 2022 as well as $226.8 million in amortization and impairments of acquisition-related assets and retention agreements incurred in 2023 compared to $420.1 million incurred in 2022. Additionally, in 2023, we had net investments of $10.3 million from certain investment products that economically hedge our supplemental savings plan liability, compared to net investments of $18.8 million in 2022. The remaining change in reported cash flows from operating activities was attributable to the net change in trading securities held in our consolidated investment products’ underlying portfolios. Operating activities attributable to T. Rowe Price Group during 2022 provided cash flows of $2,440.3 million as compared to $3,428.3 million during 2021. Operating cash flows attributable to T. Rowe Price Group decreased $988.0 million, including a $1,525.0 million decrease in net income, timing differences on the cash settlement of our assets and liabilities of $303.9 million, and $774.0 million of higher non-cash adjustments, including unrealized investment gains/losses, depreciation, amortization and impairments of acquisition-related assets and retention arrangements, the fair value remeasurement of the contingent consideration liability, stock-based compensation expense, and other non-cash items. The non-cash adjustments were primarily driven by $314.0 million of net investment losses in 2022 compared to $169.4 million of net investment gains in 2021. Additionally, in 2022, we had net investments of $18.8 million from certain investment products that economically hedge our supplemental savings plan liability, compared to net investments of $85.7 million in 2021. The remaining change in reported cash flows from operating activities was attributable to the net change in trading securities held in our consolidated investment products’ underlying portfolios. Investing activities Net cash used in investing activities that are attributable to T. Rowe Price Group totaled $310.2 million in 2023 compared with $179.3 million in 2022. During 2023, net proceeds from the sale of investments of $36.1 million were lower compared to $62.0 million during 2022. In 2023, we increased our property and equipment expenditures by $70.3 million and our other investing activity by $34.7 million. We eliminate our capital in those sponsored investment products we consolidate in preparing our consolidated statements of cash flows. The remaining change in reported cash flows from investing activities of $48.1 million is primarily related to the net cash removed from our balance sheet from consolidating and deconsolidating investment products. Net cash used in investing activities that are attributable to T. Rowe Price Group totaled $179.3 million in 2022, compared with $1,134.9 million of cash used in investing activities in 2021. During 2022, net proceeds from the sale of certain discretionary investments of $208.5 million were lower compared to $1,577.8 million during 2021 as investments were sold in 2021 to fund part of the consideration paid to complete the acquisition of OHA. In 2022, we also increased the level of seed capital in those sponsored investment products we consolidate by $92.8 million. We eliminate our seed capital in those sponsored investment products we consolidate in preparing our consolidated statements of cash flows. The remaining change in reported cash flows from investing activities of $8.2 million is primarily related to the net cash removed from our balance sheet from consolidating and deconsolidating investment products. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities attributable to T. Rowe Price Group totaled $1,437.4 million in 2023 compared with $2,028.5 million in 2022. During 2023, we used $254.4 million to repurchase 2.4 million shares compared to $849.8 million to repurchase 6.8 million shares in 2022. The $14.3 million increase in dividends paid in 2023 is a result of the 1.7% increase in our quarterly dividend per share in 2023. In addition, net distributions to non-controlling interests in consolidated entities increased by $8.2 million and cash flow related to common stock issued under stock compensation plans increased by $18.2 million during 2023 compared to 2022. The remaining change in reported cash flows from financing activities is primarily attributable to a $407.2 million increase in net subscriptions from redeemable non-controlling interest holders of our consolidated investment products during 2023. Net cash used in financing activities attributable to T. Rowe Price Group totaled $2,028.5 million in 2022, compared with $2,922.0 million in 2021. During 2022, we used $849.8 million to repurchase 6.8 million shares compared to 20 Page 49 $1,138.5 million to repurchase 5.9 million shares in 2021. The $594.5 million decrease in dividends paid in 2022 is a result of a special cash dividend paid in July 2021 that did not recur in 2022, partially offset by the 11.1% increase in our quarterly dividend per share in 2022. In addition, $35.1 million in net distributions to non-controlling interests in consolidated entities increased net cash used in financing activities. The remaining change in reported cash flows from financing activities is primarily attributable to a $18.4 million decrease in net redemptions from redeemable non-controlling interest holders of our consolidated investment products and a $45.4 million increase in cash flow related to common stock issued under stock compensation plans during 2022 compared to 2021. MATERIAL CASH COMMITMENTS. Our material cash commitments primarily include our obligations under the supplemental savings plan, our lease obligations, our headquarters build out, and other contractual amounts that will be due for the purchase of goods or services to be used in our operations. Some of these contractual amounts may be cancellable under certain conditions and may involve termination fees. We expect to fund these cash commitments from future cash flows from operations. Our obligations under the supplemental savings plan are disclosed on our consolidated balance sheet with more information included in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. Our lease obligations are disclosed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. Additionally, there are unrecognized tax benefits discussed in Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements. While most of our other material cash commitments consist of goods and services used in our operations, these commitments primarily consist of obligations related to long-term software licensing and maintenance contracts, construction in process, and service contracts. We also have outstanding commitments to fund additional contributions to investment partnerships totaling $94.1 million. The vast majority of these additional contributions will be made to investment partnerships in which we have an existing investment. In addition to such amounts, a percentage of prior distributions may be called under certain circumstances. As part of the OHA acquisition, T. Rowe Price committed $500 million to fund OHA products through 2026. As of December 31, 2023, T. Rowe Price has $404.0 million remaining to commit to the OHA products. T. Rowe Price has also entered into certain earnout and other arrangements as part of that acquisition. For more detail on these arrangements, see Note 5 and Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES. The preparation of financial statements often requires the selection of specific accounting methods and policies from among several acceptable alternatives. Further, significant estimates and judgments may be required in selecting and applying those methods and policies in the recognition of the assets and liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets, the revenues and expenses in our consolidated statements of income, and the information that is contained in our significant accounting policies and notes to the consolidated financial statements. These policies and estimates are considered critical because they had a material impact or are reasonably likely to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and because they require management to make significant judgments, assumptions or estimates. Making these estimates and judgments requires the analysis of information concerning events that may not yet be complete and of facts and circumstances that may change over time. Accordingly, actual amounts or future results can differ materially from those estimates that we include currently in our consolidated financial statements, significant accounting policies, and notes. We present those significant accounting policies used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements as an integral part of those statements within this 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K. In the following discussion, we highlight and explain further certain of those policies and estimates that are most critical to the preparation and understanding of our financial statements. Consolidation We consolidate all subsidiaries and sponsored investment products in which we have a controlling financial interest. We are deemed to have a controlling interest when we own the majority of the voting interest of an entity or are deemed to be the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity ("VIE"). VIEs are entities that lack sufficient equity 20 Page 50 to finance its activities or the equity holders do not have defined power to direct the activities of the entity normally associated with an equity investment. Our analysis to determine whether an entity is a VIE or a voting interest entity ("VOE") involves judgment and considers several factors, including an entity’s legal organization, capital structure, the rights of the equity investment holders, our ownership interest in the entity, and our contractual involvement with the entity. We continually review and reconsider our VIE or VOE conclusions upon the occurrence of certain events, such as changes to our ownership interest, changes to an entity’s legal structure, or amendments to governing documents. Our VIEs are primarily sponsored investment products and our variable interest consists of our equity ownership in and investment management fees earned from these entities. We are the primary beneficiary if we have the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact its economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses of the entity or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could potentially be significant. Our SICAV funds and other sponsored investment products regulated outside the U.S. are determined to be VIEs. In addition, in connection with the OHA acquisition, we acquired certain carried interest entities, which are considered VIEs. These carried interest entities hold interests in general partners of affiliated private investment funds that are also VIEs; however, the carried interest entities are not the primary beneficiaries to these investment funds. Other-than-temporary impairments of equity method investments We evaluate our equity method investments, including our investment in UTI, certain investments in sponsored investment products, and our investments in the affiliated private investment funds, for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the investment exceeds its fair value, and the decline in fair value is other than temporary. For our investments in our affiliated private investment funds, we consider the length of time and the extent to which market value has been less than cost, any specific events that may influence the operations of the funds and our intent and ability to retain the investment for a period of time to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. We generally believe an assessment period of four consecutive quarters of sustained market losses is a reasonable period to allow for an anticipated market recovery. Intangible assets Indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment annually, in the fourth quarter, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the intangible asset is impaired. Management must first determine the level at which indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment (i.e., unit of account). We have concluded that each of the trade name and investment advisory agreements indefinite-lived intangible asset will be considered their own separate unit of account. Once the unit of account is determined, management has the option to first assess indefinite-lived intangible assets for qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform a quantitative impairment test. If a quantitative impairment test is required, the impairment test consists of a comparison of the fair value of an intangible asset with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. If required, fair value is generally determined using a discounted cash flow analysis where estimated future cash flows are discounted to arrive at a single present value amount. This approach includes inputs that require significant management judgment, the most relevant of which include revenue growth, discount rates, and effective tax rates. Changes in these inputs could produce different fair value amounts and therefore different impairment conclusions. During 2023, our annual impairment review of our indefinite-lived intangible assets determined that they were not impaired at the review date. Definite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the asset group's carrying amount may not be recoverable (i.e., the carrying amount is less than the undiscounted estimated future cash flows). Management must first determine the level at which definite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment (i.e., asset group). The determination of the asset group is judgmental and the intangible assets can be grouped based on the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of identifiable cash flows for other groups of assets. Since each affiliated private investment fund has identifiable cash flows separate from other funds, we determined that the asset group for testing is each individual affiliated private investment fund. Once the asset group is identified, we next determine whether there are any triggering events that would cause us to believe that the carrying value would not be recoverable. If there is a triggering event, then we would perform a test of recoverability. Based on that test, if the carrying value is not recoverable, then a fair value measurement is required of the asset group to determine if the fair value is less than the asset group's carrying amount. If required, fair value would be determined using a discounted cash flow analysis where estimated future cash flows are discounted to arrive at a single present value amount. This approach includes inputs that require 20 Page 51 significant management judgment, the most relevant of which include revenue growth, discount rates, and effective tax rates. Any impairment loss would be the difference between the fair value of the asset group and its carrying amount. During 2023, we recognized an immaterial non-cash impairment charge on these intangible assets. Goodwill We internally conduct, manage, and report our operations as one reportable business segment - investment advisory business. This reflects how the chief operating decision maker allocates resources and assesses performance. Accordingly, we have one reporting unit - our investment advisory business, consistent with our single operating segment, to which all goodwill has been assigned. We evaluate the carrying amount of goodwill in our consolidated balance sheets for possible impairment on an annual basis in the fourth quarter of each year using a fair value approach. Goodwill would be considered impaired whenever our historical carrying amount exceeds the fair value of our investment advisory business. Our annual testing has demonstrated that the fair value of our investment advisory business (our market capitalization) exceeds our carrying amount (our stockholders’ equity) and, therefore, no impairment exists. Should we reach a different conclusion in the future, additional work would be performed to ascertain the amount of the noncash impairment charge to be recognized. We must also perform impairment testing at other times if an event or circumstance occurs indicating that it is more likely than not that an impairment has been incurred. The maximum future impairment of goodwill that we could incur is the amount recognized in our consolidated balance sheets, $2.6 billion as of December 31, 2023. Provision for income taxes After compensation and related costs, our provision for income taxes on our earnings is our largest annual expense. We operate in numerous states and countries through our various subsidiaries and must allocate our income, expenses, and earnings under the various laws and regulations of each of these taxing jurisdictions. Accordingly, our provision for income taxes represents our total estimate of the liability that we have incurred in doing business each year in all of our locations. Annually, we file tax returns that represent our filing positions with each jurisdiction and settle our return liabilities. Each jurisdiction has the right to audit those returns and may take different positions with respect to income and expense allocations and taxable earnings determinations. From time to time, we may also provide for estimated liabilities associated with uncertain tax return filing positions that are subject to, or in the process of, being audited by various tax authorities. Because the determination of our annual provision is subject to judgments and estimates, it is likely that actual results will vary from those recognized in our financial statements. As a result, we recognize additions to, or reductions of, income tax expense during a reporting period that pertain to prior period provisions as our estimated liabilities are revised and actual tax returns and tax audits are settled. We recognize any such prior period adjustment in the discrete quarterly period in which it is determined. We recognize deferred tax assets to the extent that we believe that these assets are more likely than not to be realized. In making such a determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax-planning strategies, and results of recent operations. If we determine that we would be able to realize our deferred tax assets in the future in excess of their net recorded amount, we would make an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance, which would reduce the provision for income taxes. NEWLY ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED ACCOUNTING GUIDANCE. See Note 1 - Basis of Preparation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies within Item 8, Financial Statements for a discussion of newly issued but not yet adopted accounting guidance. 20 Page 52 FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION. From time to time, information or statements provided by or on behalf of T. Rowe Price, including those within this report, may contain certain forward-looking information, including information or anticipated information relating to: our revenues, net income, and earnings per share of common stock; changes in the amount and composition of our assets under management; our expense levels; our tax rate; legal or regulatory developments; geopolitical instability; interest rates and currency fluctuations; and our expectations regarding financial markets, future transactions, dividends, stock repurchases, investments, new products and services, capital expenditures, changes in our effective fee rate, and other industry or market conditions. Readers are cautioned that any forward-looking information provided by or on behalf of T. Rowe Price is not a guarantee of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those in forward-looking information because of various factors including, but not limited to, those discussed below and in Item 1A, Risk Factors, of this Form 10-K Annual Report. Further, forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which it is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Our future revenues and results of operations will fluctuate primarily due to changes in the total value and composition of assets under our management. Such changes result from many factors, including, among other things: client-related cash inflows and outflows in our products, performance fees, capital allocation-based income, fluctuations in global financial markets that result in appreciation or depreciation of the assets under our management, our introduction of new investment products, and changes in retirement savings trends relative to participant-directed investments and defined contribution plans. The ability to attract and retain investors’ assets under our management is dependent on investor sentiment and confidence; the relative investment performance of the T. Rowe Price mutual funds and other managed investment products as compared with competing offerings and market indexes; the ability to maintain our investment management and administrative fees at appropriate levels; the impact of changes in interest rates and inflation; competitive conditions in the mutual fund, asset management, and broader financial services sectors; our level of success in implementing our strategy to expand our business; and our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our revenues are substantially dependent on fees earned under contracts with the T. Rowe Price funds and could be adversely affected if the independent directors of one or more of the T. Rowe Price funds terminated or significantly altered the terms of the investment management or related administrative services agreements. Non-operating investment income will also fluctuate primarily due to the size of our investments, changes in their market valuations, and any other-than-temporary impairments that may arise or, in the case of our equity method investments, our proportionate share of the investees’ net income. Our future results are also dependent upon the level of our expenses, which are subject to fluctuation for the following or other reasons: changes in the level of our advertising and promotion expenses in response to market conditions, including our efforts to expand our investment advisory business to investors outside the U.S. and to further penetrate our distribution channels within the U.S.; the pace and level of spending to support key strategic priorities; variations in the level of total compensation expense due to, among other things, bonuses, restricted stock units and other equity grants, other incentive awards, our supplemental savings plan, changes in our employee count and mix, and competitive factors; any goodwill, intangible asset or other asset impairment that may arise; fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates applicable to the costs of our international operations; expenses and capital costs, such as technology assets, depreciation, amortization, and research and development, incurred to maintain and enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure; the timing of the assumption of all third party research payments, unanticipated costs that may be incurred to protect investor accounts and the goodwill of our clients; and disruptions of services, including those provided by third parties, such as fund and product recordkeeping, facilities, communications, power, and the mutual fund transfer agent and accounting systems, as a result of extreme events, cyberattacks or otherwise. Our business is also subject to substantial governmental regulation, and changes in legal, regulatory, accounting, tax, and compliance requirements may have a substantial effect on our operations and results, including, but not limited to, effects on costs that we incur and effects on investor interest in sponsored investment products and investing in general or in particular classes of mutual funds or other investments. 20 Page 53