********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this report, including without limitation our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto and "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Estimates."  The following risk factors have been organized by category for ease of use; however, many of the risks may have impacts in more than one category. Insurance-Related Risks High levels of catastrophe losses, including as a result of factors such as increased concentrations of insured exposures in catastrophe-prone areas, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and/or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance. Our property and casualty insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes in each of the geographies where we write business and to varying peak catastrophe perils in different countries and regions. Catastrophes can be caused by various natural events, including, among others, hurricanes, tornadoes and other windstorms, earthquakes, hail, wildfires, severe winter weather, floods, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions, solar flares and other naturally-occurring events. Catastrophes can also be man-made, such as terrorist attacks and other intentionally destructive acts including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological events, cyber events, civil unrest, explosions and destruction of infrastructure. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable, and it is possible that both the frequency and severity of natural and man-made catastrophic events could increase.  Severe weather events over the last two decades have underscored the unpredictability of future climate trends, and changing climate conditions could add to the frequency and severity of natural disasters and create additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures.  The insurance industry has experienced increased catastrophe losses due to a number of  potential factors, including, in addition to weather/climate variability, more people living in high-risk areas, population growth in areas with weaker enforcement of building codes, urban expansion and an increase in the average size of a house.  For example, hurricane activity has impacted areas further inland than previously experienced by us, and demographic changes have resulted in larger populations located in coastal areas which historically have been subject to severe storms and related storm surge, thus expanding our potential for losses from hurricanes.  Additionally, both the frequency and severity of tornado and hail storms in the United States have been more volatile during the last decade. The frequency and severity of wildfire losses have been elevated in more recent years, due in part to record droughts in western states that some climate studies suggest are likely to increase over time, as well as demographic changes in areas prone to wildfires. All of the catastrophe modeling tools that we use or rely on to evaluate our catastrophe exposures are based on significant assumptions and judgments and are subject to error and mis-estimation.  As a result, these models may produce estimates that are materially different than actual results.    See "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Catastrophe Modeling" and "—Changing Climate Conditions." The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of the total amount of insured exposure affected by the event, the severity of the event and the coverage provided.  Increases in the value and geographic concentration of insured property, the number of policyholders exposed to certain events and the effects of inflation could increase the severity of claims resulting from a catastrophe.  For example, the specific location impacted by tornadoes is inherently random and unpredictable and the specific location impacted by a tornado may or may not be highly populated and may or may not have a high concentration of our insured exposures.  Similarly, the potential for losses from a cyber event can be magnified to the extent that the event impacts platforms, systems or vulnerabilities shared by a large number of policyholders. States have from time to time passed legislation, and regulators have taken action, that have the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage catastrophe risk, such as by restricting insurers from reducing exposures or withdrawing from catastrophe-prone areas or mandating that insurers participate in residual markets. Residual markets have resulted in, and may in the future result in, significant losses or assessments to insurers, including us.  Legislative, regulatory and legal actions also from time to time may seek to expand insurance coverage for catastrophe claims beyond the original intent of the policies, prevent the application of deductibles or limit other rights of insurers.  We may not be able to adjust terms or raise prices to offset the costs of catastrophes.  See "Item 1—Business—U.S. State and Federal Regulation – Regulatory and Legislative Responses to Catastrophes.” 43 The estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves related to catastrophe losses can be affected by, among other things, the nature of the information available at the time of estimation, coverage issues, and legal, regulatory and economic uncertainties.  The estimates related to catastrophe losses are adjusted in subsequent periods as actual claims emerge and additional information becomes available, and these adjustments could be material. Exposure to catastrophe losses could adversely affect our financial strength and claims-paying ratings and could impair our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms or at all. Also, as a result of our exposure to catastrophe losses, rating agencies may further increase capital requirements, which may require us to raise capital to maintain our ratings.  A ratings downgrade could hurt our ability to compete effectively or attract new business.  In addition, catastrophic events could cause us to exhaust our available reinsurance limits and could adversely impact the cost and availability of reinsurance on a going-forward basis. Such events can also impact the credit of our reinsurers.  For a discussion of our catastrophe reinsurance coverage, see "Item 1—Business—Reinsurance—Catastrophe Reinsurance." Catastrophic events could also adversely impact the credit of the issuers of securities held in our investment portfolio, such as states or municipalities. In addition, coverage in our reinsurance program for terrorism is limited.  Although the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program provides benefits in the event of certain acts of terrorism, those benefits are subject to a deductible and other limitations and the program is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2027. Under current provisions of this program, once our losses exceed 20% of our commercial property and casualty insurance premium for the preceding calendar year, the federal government will reimburse us for 80% of our losses attributable to certain acts of terrorism which exceed this deductible up to a total industry program cap of $100 billion. Our estimated deductible under the program is $2.61 billion for 2021. For a further description of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program, see note 6 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. Because of the risks set forth above, catastrophes could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity.  Further, we may not have sufficient resources to respond to claims arising from a high frequency of high-severity natural catastrophes and/or of man-made catastrophic events involving conventional means or claims arising out of one or more man-made catastrophic events involving “unconventional” means, such as nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events. If actual claims exceed our claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, or if changes in the estimated level of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are necessary, including as a result of, among other things, changes in the legal/tort, regulatory and economic environments in which the Company operates, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves (“loss reserves”) represent management estimates of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost, generally utilizing actuarial expertise and projection techniques, at a given accounting date. The process of estimating loss reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. These variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as: changes in claims handling procedures; adverse changes in loss cost trends, including inflationary pressures, technology or other changes that may impact medical, auto and home repair costs (e.g., more costly technology in vehicles resulting in increased severity of claims); economic conditions, including general and wage inflation; legal trends, including adverse changes in the tort environment (e.g., increased and more aggressive attorney involvement in insurance claims, increased litigation, expanded theories of liability, higher jury awards, lawsuit abuse and third-party litigation finance, among others); and legislative changes, among others.  The impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for loss reserves is difficult to estimate and could be material. Loss reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and lags in reporting of events to insurers, among other factors. It is possible that, among other things, past or future steps taken by the federal government and the Federal Reserve to stimulate the U.S. economy, including actions taken in response to COVID-19 (such as fiscal and monetary policy measures), tax reform, the imposition of increased or additional tariffs and other changes in international trade regulation, could lead to higher inflation than we had anticipated, which could in turn lead to an increase in our loss costs.  The impact of inflation on loss costs could be more pronounced for those lines of business that are considered “long tail,” such as general liability, as they require a relatively long period of time to finalize and settle claims for a given accident year. In addition, a significant portion of claims costs, including those in “long tail” lines of business, consists of medical costs.  Changes in healthcare legislation could significantly impact the availability, cost and allocation of payments for medical services, and it is possible that, as a result, inflationary pressures in medical costs may increase or claim frequency and/or severity may otherwise be adversely impacted. The estimation of loss reserves may also be more difficult during extreme events, such as a pandemic, or during volatile or uncertain economic conditions, due to unexpected changes in behavior of claimants and policyholders, including an increase in fraudulent reporting of exposures and/or losses, reduced maintenance of insured properties, increased frequency of small claims or delays in the reporting or adjudication of claims. 44 We refine our loss reserve estimates in a regular, ongoing process as historical loss experience develops, additional claims are reported and settled, and the legal, regulatory and economic environment evolves. Business judgment is applied throughout the process, including the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. Different experts may choose different assumptions when faced with material uncertainty, based on their individual backgrounds, professional experiences and areas of focus.  As a result, such experts may at times produce estimates materially different from each other.  This risk may be exacerbated in the context of an extreme event or an acquisition.  Experts providing input to the various estimates and underlying assumptions include actuaries, underwriters, claim personnel and lawyers, as well as other members of management. Therefore, management may have to consider varying individual viewpoints as part of its estimation of loss reserves. Due to the inherent uncertainty underlying loss reserve estimates, the final resolution of the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses will likely be higher or lower than the related loss reserves at the reporting date.  In addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. These additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, could vary significantly from period to period and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and/or our financial position.  For a discussion of loss reserves by product line, including examples of common factors that can affect reserves, see "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Estimates—Claims and Claim Adjustment Expense Reserves." Our business could be harmed because of our potential exposure to asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. We continue to receive a significant number of asbestos claims.  Factors underlying these claim filings include continued intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants and the continued focus by plaintiffs on defendants, such as manufacturers of talcum powder, who were not traditionally primary targets of asbestos litigation. We also continue to be involved in coverage litigation concerning a number of policyholders, some of whom have filed for bankruptcy, who in some instances have asserted that all or a portion of their asbestos-related claims are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage and/or that each individual bodily injury claim should be treated as a separate occurrence under the policy. To the extent both issues are resolved in a policyholder’s favor and our other defenses are not successful, our coverage obligations under the policies at issue would be materially increased and bounded only by the applicable per-occurrence limits and the number of asbestos bodily injury claims against the policyholders. Although we have seen a moderation in the overall risk associated with these lawsuits, it remains difficult to predict the ultimate cost of these claims. Further, in addition to claims against policyholders, proceedings have been launched directly against insurers, including us, by individuals challenging insurers’ conduct with respect to the handling of past asbestos claims and by individuals seeking damages arising from alleged asbestos-related bodily injuries.  It is possible that the filing of other direct actions against insurers, including us, could be made in the future. We also continue to receive claims from policyholders who allege that they are liable for injury or damage arising out of their alleged disposition of toxic substances. Liability for investigation and cleanup of environmental contamination and for some related losses under federal laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, and under similar state laws, may be imposed on certain parties even if they did not cause the release or threatened release of hazardous substances and may be joint and several with other responsible parties. The Company has been, and continues to be, involved in litigation involving insurance coverage issues pertaining to asbestos and environmental claims. The Company believes that some court decisions have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than the original intent of the insurers and policyholders. These decisions continue to be inconsistent and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.  Uncertainties surrounding the final resolution of these asbestos and environmental claims continue, and it is difficult to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims and related litigation. As a result, these reserves are subject to revision as new information becomes available and as claims develop. It is also not possible to predict changes in the legal, regulatory and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims.  This environment could be affected by changes in applicable legislation and future court and regulatory decisions and interpretations, including the outcome of legal challenges to legislative and/or judicial reforms establishing medical criteria for the pursuit of asbestos claims.  It is also difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of complex coverage disputes until settlement negotiations near completion and significant legal questions are resolved or, failing settlement, until the dispute is adjudicated. This is particularly the case with policyholders in bankruptcy where negotiations often involve a large number of claimants and other parties and require court approval to be effective. It is possible that the outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in liability in future periods that differs from current reserves by an amount that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. See the "Asbestos Claims and Litigation," "Environmental Claims and Litigation" and “Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves” sections of "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Also see "Item 3—Legal Proceedings." 45 We are exposed to, and may face adverse developments involving, mass tort claims such as those relating to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances. We face potential exposure to mass tort claims, including claims related to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances, such as lead paint, silica, talc and opioids. Establishing loss reserves for mass tort claims is subject to uncertainties because of many factors, including adverse changes to the tort environment (e.g., increased and more aggressive attorney involvement in insurance claims, increased litigation, expanded theories of liability, higher jury awards, lawsuit abuse and third-party litigation finance, among others); evolving judicial interpretations, including application of various theories of joint and several liabilities; disputes concerning medical causation with respect to certain diseases; geographical concentration of the lawsuits asserting the claims; and the potential for a large rise in the total number of claims without underlying epidemiological developments suggesting an increase in disease rates. Because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current loss reserves. In addition, our estimate of loss reserves may change. These additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, could vary significantly from period to period and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and/or our financial position. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain, and court decisions or legislative changes that take place after we issue our policies can result in an unexpected increase in the number of claims and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claim and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business, including by extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent, by increasing the number, size or types of claims or by mandating changes to our underwriting practices. Examples of such claims and coverage issues include, but are not limited to: • judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new or expanded theories of liability; • plaintiffs targeting insurers in purported class action litigation relating to claims handling and other practices; • claims relating to construction defects, which often present complex coverage and damage valuation questions; • claims related to data and network security breaches, information system failures or cyber events, including cases where coverage was not intended to be provided; • the assertion of “public nuisance” or similar theories of liability, pursuant to which plaintiffs, including governmental entities, seek to recover monies spent to administer public health care programs, abate hazards to public health and safety and/or recover damages purportedly attributable to a “public nuisance,” such as litigation against lead paint manufacturers or manufacturers or distributors of opioids; • claims related to liability, business interruption or workers’ compensation arising out of infectious disease or pandemic; • claims relating to abuse by an employee or a volunteer of an insured; • claims that link health issues to particular causes (for example, cumulative traumatic head injury from sports or other causes), resulting in liability or workers’ compensation claims; • claims alleging that one or more of our underwriting criteria have a disparate impact on persons belonging to a protected class in violation of the law, including the Fair Housing Act; • claims arising out of modern techniques and practices used in connection with the extraction of natural resources, such as hydraulic fracturing or wastewater injection; • claims arising out of the use of personal property in commercial transactions, such as ride or home sharing; • claims relating to unanticipated consequences of current or new technologies or business models or processes, including as a result of related behavioral changes; and • claims relating to changing climate conditions, including claims alleging that our policyholders cause or contribute to changing climate conditions. In some instances, emerging issues may not become apparent for some time after we have issued the affected insurance policies. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance policies may not be known for many years after the policies are issued. In addition, the passage of new legislation designed to expand the right to sue, to remove limitations on recovery, to deem by statute the existence of a covered occurrence, to extend or eliminate the statutes of limitations or otherwise to repeal or weaken tort reforms could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.  For example, a number of states have enacted legislation allowing victims of sexual molestation to file or proceed with claims that otherwise would have been time-barred and additional states are considering similar legislative changes. The effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could harm our business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 46 Financial, Economic and Credit Risks During or following a period of financial market disruption or an economic downturn, our business could be materially and adversely affected. If financial markets experience significant disruption or if economic conditions deteriorate, our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity likely would be adversely impacted.  For example, financial market disruptions and economic downturns in the past have resulted in, among other things, reduced business volume, heightened credit risk and reduced valuations for certain of our investments. Several of the risk factors discussed above and below identify risks that could result from, or be exacerbated by, financial market disruption, an economic slowdown or economic uncertainty. These include risks discussed above related to our estimates of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, and those discussed below related to our investment portfolio, the competitive environment, emerging claim and coverage issues, reinsurance arrangements, other credit exposures, regulatory developments and the impact of rating agency actions. See also "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," particularly the "Outlook" section, for additional information about these risks and the potential impact on our business. Our investment portfolio is subject to credit and interest rate risk, and may suffer reduced or low returns or material realized or unrealized losses. Investment returns are an important part of our overall profitability. Fixed maturity and short-term investments comprised approximately 94% of the carrying value of our investment portfolio as of December 31, 2020. Changes in interest rates affect the carrying value of our fixed maturity investments and returns on our fixed maturity and short-term investments. A decline in interest rates reduces the returns available on short-term investments and new fixed maturity investments (including those purchased to re-invest maturities from the existing portfolio), thereby negatively impacting our net investment income, while rising interest rates reduce the market value of existing fixed maturity investments, thereby negatively impacting our book value.  Interest rates continue to remain at very low levels relative to historical experience, and rates may remain at low levels for a prolonged period.  See also “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Outlook.”  The value of our fixed maturity and short-term investments is also subject to the risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to a deterioration in the financial condition of one or more issuers of the securities held in our portfolio, or due to a deterioration in the financial condition of an insurer that guarantees an issuer’s payments of such investments. Such defaults and impairments could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses.  During an economic downturn, fixed maturity and short-term investments could be subject to a higher risk of default, and our non-fixed income investments could be negatively impacted as well. Our fixed maturity investment portfolio is invested, in substantial part, in obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions. This municipal bond portfolio could be subject to default or impairment. In particular: • In recent years, many state and local governments have been operating under deficits or projected deficits, which could be exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic. The severity and duration of these deficits could have an adverse impact on the collectability and valuation of our municipal bond portfolio. These deficits may also be exacerbated by the impact of unfunded pension plan obligations and other postretirement obligations or by declining municipal tax bases and revenues in times of financial stress. • Some municipal bond issuers may be unwilling to increase tax rates, or to reduce spending, to fund interest or principal payments on their municipal bonds, or may be unable to access the municipal bond market to fund such payments.  The risk of widespread defaults may increase if some issuers voluntarily choose to default, instead of implementing difficult fiscal measures, and the actual or perceived consequences  are less severe than expected. • The risk of widespread defaults may also increase if there are changes in legislation that permit states, municipalities and political subdivisions to file for bankruptcy protection where they were not permitted before.  In addition, the collectability and valuation of municipal bonds may be adversely affected if there are judicial interpretations in a bankruptcy or other proceeding that lessen the value of structural protections.  For example, debtors may challenge the effectiveness of structural protections thought to be provided by municipal securities backed by a dedicated source of revenue.  The collectability and valuation may also be adversely affected if there are judicial interpretations in a bankruptcy or other proceeding that question the payment priority of municipal bonds. Our portfolio has benefited from tax exemptions (such as those related to interest from municipal bonds) and certain other tax laws, including, but not limited to, those governing dividends-received deductions and tax credits. Changes in these laws could adversely impact the value of our investment portfolio. 47 Our investment portfolio includes: residential mortgage-backed securities; collateralized mortgage obligations; pass-through securities and asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages; commercial mortgage-backed securities; and wholly-owned real estate and real estate partnerships, all of which could be adversely impacted by declines in real estate valuations and/or financial market disruption, including as a result of COVID-19. We also invest a portion of our assets in equity securities, private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds and real estate partnerships.  From time to time, we may also invest in other types of non-fixed maturity investments, including investments with exposure to commodity price risk, such as oil. All of these asset classes are subject to greater volatility in their investment returns than fixed maturity investments. General economic conditions, changes in applicable tax laws and many other factors beyond our control can adversely affect the value of our non-fixed maturity investments and the realization of net investment income, and/or result in realized investment losses.  As a result of these factors, we may realize reduced returns on these investments, incur losses on sales of these investments and be required to write down the value of these investments, which could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses. From time to time, the Company enters into short positions in U.S. Treasury futures contracts to manage the duration of its fixed maturity portfolio, which can result in realized investment losses. Our investment portfolio is also subject to increased valuation uncertainties when investment markets are illiquid. The valuation of investments is more subjective when markets are illiquid, thereby increasing the risk that the estimated fair value (i.e., the carrying amount) of the portion of the investment portfolio that is carried at fair value as reflected in our financial statements is not reflective of prices at which actual transactions could occur. We may, depending on circumstances in the future, including as a result of changes in economic and market conditions, make changes to the mix of investments in our investment portfolio as part of our ongoing efforts to seek appropriate risk-adjusted returns.  These changes may impact the duration, volatility and risk of our investment portfolio. Because of the risks set forth above, the value of our investment portfolio could decrease, we could experience reduced net investment income and we could experience realized and/or unrealized investment losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. We may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers, reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all and we are exposed to credit risk related to our structured settlements. Although the reinsurer is liable to us to the extent of the reinsurance, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. As a result, reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. Accordingly, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. In the past, certain reinsurers have ceased writing business and entered into runoff.  Some of our reinsurance claims may be disputed by the reinsurers, and we may ultimately receive partial or no payment. This is a particular risk in the case of claims that relate to insurance policies written many years ago, including those relating to asbestos and environmental claims. In addition, in a number of jurisdictions a reinsurer is permitted to transfer a reinsurance arrangement to another reinsurer, which may be less creditworthy, without a counterparty’s consent.  Also, the reinsurance that we purchase may not cover all of the risks covered by the policies that we issue. Included in reinsurance recoverables are amounts related to certain structured settlements. Structured settlements are annuities purchased from various life insurance companies to settle certain personal physical injury claims, of which workers’ compensation claims comprise a significant portion.  In cases where we did not receive a release from the claimant, the structured settlement is included in reinsurance recoverables and the related claim cost is included in the liability for loss reserves, as we retain the contingent liability to the claimant.  Some of the life insurance companies from which we have purchased annuities have been downgraded to below investment grade credit ratings subsequent to the time of the purchase.  If it is expected that the life insurance company is not able to pay, we would recognize an impairment of the related reinsurance recoverable if, and to the extent, the purchased annuities are not covered by state guaranty associations.  In the event that the life insurance company fails to make the required annuity payments, we would be required to make such payments.    For a discussion of our top reinsurance groups by reinsurance recoverable and the top five groups by amount of structured settlements provided, see "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Reinsurance Recoverables." Both the availability of reinsurance capacity and its cost can be impacted by general economic conditions and conditions in the reinsurance market, such as the occurrence of significant reinsured events or unexpected adverse trends. The availability and cost of reinsurance could affect our business volume and profitability. In addition, the Covered Agreements between the U.S. and each of the EU and U.K. eliminate the requirement for European and U.K. reinsurers operating in the U.S. to provide 48 collateral, which could make it more difficult for U.S. companies, including us, to obtain collateral from European and U.K. reinsurers. Because of the risks set forth above, we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers, and reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all, and/or life insurance companies may fail to make required annuity payments, and thus our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are exposed to credit risk in certain of our insurance operations and with respect to certain guarantee or indemnification arrangements that we have with third parties. We are exposed to credit risk in several areas of our business operations, including credit risk relating to policyholders, independent agents and brokers.  To a significant degree, the extent of the credit risk that we face is a function of the health of the economy; accordingly, we face an increased credit risk in an economic downturn. We are exposed to credit risk in our surety insurance operations, where we guarantee to a third party that our customer will satisfy certain performance obligations (e.g., a construction contract) or certain financial obligations, including exposure to large customers who may have obligations to multiple third parties. If our customer defaults, we may suffer losses and not be reimbursed by that customer, even though we are entitled to indemnification from such customer. In addition, it is customary practice for multiple insurers to participate as co-sureties on large surety bonds. Under these arrangements, the co-surety obligations are typically joint and several, in which case we are also exposed to credit risk with respect to our co-sureties. In addition, a portion of our business is written with large deductible insurance policies.  Under casualty insurance contracts with deductible features, we are obligated to pay the claimant the full amount of the settled claim. We are subsequently reimbursed by the contractholder for the deductible amount, and, as a result, we are exposed to credit risk to the policyholder.  Moreover, certain policyholders purchase retrospectively rated workers’ compensation and/or general liability policies (i.e., where premiums are adjusted after the policy period based on the actual loss experience of the policyholder during the policy period).  Retrospectively rated policies expose us to additional credit risk to the extent that the adjusted premium is greater than the original premium. Our efforts to mitigate the credit risk that we have to our insureds may not be successful.  For example, we may not be able to obtain collateral and any collateral obtained may subsequently have little or no value. In accordance with industry practice, when policyholders purchase insurance policies from us through independent agents and brokers, the premiums relating to those policies are often paid to the agents and brokers for payment to us. In most jurisdictions, the premiums will be deemed to have been paid to us whether or not they are actually received by us. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with amounts due from independent agents and brokers. We are also exposed to credit risk related to certain guarantee or indemnification arrangements that we have with third parties.  See note 17 of notes to the consolidated financial statements.  Our exposure to the above credit risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. A downgrade in our claims-paying and financial strength ratings could adversely impact our business volumes, adversely impact our ability to access the capital markets and increase our borrowing costs. Claims-paying and financial strength ratings are important to an insurer’s competitive position.  A downgrade in one or more of our ratings could negatively impact our business volumes or make it more difficult or costly for us to access the capital markets or borrow money. If significant losses, including, but not limited to, those resulting from one or more major catastrophes, or significant reserve additions or significant investment losses were to cause our capital position to deteriorate significantly, or if one or more rating agencies substantially increase their capital requirements, we may need to raise equity capital in the future (which we may not be able to do at a reasonable cost or at all, especially at a time of financial market disruption) in order to maintain our ratings or limit the extent of a downgrade. A continued trend of more frequent and severe catastrophes or a prolonged financial market disruption or economic downturn may lead rating agencies to substantially increase their capital requirements. See also "Item 1—Business—Ratings." The inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in sufficient amounts would harm our ability to meet our obligations, pay future shareholder dividends and/or make future share repurchases. Our holding company relies on dividends from our U.S. insurance subsidiaries to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt, to pay dividends to shareholders, to make contributions to our qualified domestic pension plan, to pay other corporate expenses and to make share repurchases. The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in the future will depend on their statutory capital and surplus, earnings and regulatory restrictions. 49 We are subject to state insurance regulation as an insurance holding company system.  Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to various regulatory restrictions that limit the maximum amount of dividends available to be paid to their parent without prior approval of insurance regulatory authorities. In a time of prolonged economic downturn or otherwise, insurance regulators may choose to further restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to make payments to their parent companies. The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company is also restricted by regulations that set standards of solvency that must be met and maintained. The inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in an amount sufficient to meet our debt service obligations and other cash requirements could harm our ability to meet our obligations, to pay future shareholder dividends and to make share repurchases. Business and Operational Risks The impact of COVID-19 and related risks could materially affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. Beginning in March 2020, COVID-19 began to impact the global economy and our results of operations. See "Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Impact of COVID-19 and Related Economic Conditions.” The direct and indirect consequences of COVID-19 are not yet fully known and are likely to continue to emerge for some time.  Risks presented by the ongoing effects of COVID-19 include the following: • Revenues. The ongoing impact of COVID-19 on general economic activity is uncertain and could continue to negatively impact our premium volumes. The degree of the impact will depend on the duration of the pandemic and the related impact on the economy.  As a result of the impact of the pandemic on the Company’s earned premiums, the Company has experienced, and may continue to experience, an adverse impact on the underwriting expense ratio. • Claims and Claim Adjustment Expenses. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur in future periods, claim and claim adjustment expenses in certain lines of business as a result of COVID-19. For example, we have incurred workers’ compensation claims by workers who demonstrate that the injury or illness arose both out of and in the course of their employment, including, as discussed below, as a result of legislative and regulatory action to effectively expand workers’ compensation coverage by creating presumptions of compensability for certain types of workers.  In addition, concerns about seeking medical care could complicate, delay and/or extend treatment, and the related long-term effects are unknown.  We may also experience elevated frequency and/or severity in our liability coverages as a result of plaintiffs’ lawyers generating COVID-19-related claim activity against our insureds, particularly to the extent that federal or state liability shields are not enacted.  Frequency and/or severity could also be impacted with respect to various coverages due to, among other things, disruptions in supply chains and changes in business practices and individual behaviors resulting from the stay-at-home and social distancing measures.  For example, we may experience increased exposure in industries with delivery services; elevated fire, water and crime claims at unoccupied/closed businesses; delayed reporting and settlement of claims due to limited access to business locations; arson; collisions at faster speeds; increased first party medical losses in certain jurisdictions; and reduced repair shop and/or parts availability, among other things. We have recognized some elevated frequency, and there is the potential for additional elevated frequency, in certain product lines, such as directors’ and officers’ liability insurance claims related to alleged mismanagement or other failures as well as increased securities class actions, and employment practices liability insurance claims related to furloughs and lay-offs of employees. In our commercial surety lines, there is the potential for elevated frequency and severity due to an increase in the number of bankruptcies, especially in distressed industries such as transportation and energy.  In construction surety, there is the potential for elevated losses if contractors experience shutdowns, which could negatively impact their cash flows, or experience disruptions in their supply chains, unavailability of labor or increased costs for materials, each of which drives up their costs.  In addition, the short-term and long-term impacts of COVID-19 on our various product lines could be different.  The potential also exists for elevated frequency and severity related to business interruption coverages as a result of litigation or, as discussed below, in the event of legislative action to retroactively mandate coverage irrespective of terms, exclusions or other conditions included in the policies that would otherwise preclude coverage.  In addition, the anticipated and unknown risks related to COVID-19 cause additional uncertainty in the process of estimating loss reserves. For example, the behavior of claimants and policyholders may change in unexpected ways (such as an increase in the number of fraudulent claims), the disruption to the court system may impact the timing and amounts of claims settlements and the actions taken by governmental bodies, both legislative and regulatory, in reaction to COVID-19 and their related impacts are hard to predict. As a result, our estimated level of loss reserves may change.  We are also subject to credit risk in our insurance operations which may be exacerbated in times of economic distress. 50 • General and Administrative Expenses. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, general and administrative expenses due to increased estimated credit losses on premiums receivable and increased estimated credit losses related to contractholder receivables for amounts due on loss sensitive business. • Investments. The disruption in the financial markets related to COVID-19 could result in net realized investment losses due to the impact of changes in fair value of our equity investments and impairments in our fixed-income investment portfolio. Our corporate fixed income portfolio may be adversely impacted by ratings downgrades, increased bankruptcies and credit spread widening in distressed industries, such as energy, gaming, lodging and leisure, autos, airlines and retail.  In addition, in recent years, many state and local governments have been operating under deficits or projected deficits. These deficits in many cases have been, and likely will continue to be, exacerbated by the costs of responding to COVID-19 and reduced tax revenues due to adverse economic conditions.  The severity and duration of these deficits could have an adverse impact on the collectibility and valuation of our municipal bond portfolio.  Our investment portfolio also includes residential mortgage-backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities and wholly-owned real estate, all of which could be adversely impacted by declines in real estate valuations and/or financial market disruption, including a heightened collection risk on the underlying mortgages and on rent receivables, or by liability claims against landlords.  Further disruptions in global financial markets due to the continuing impact of COVID-19 could result in net realized investment losses, including potential impairments in our fixed income portfolio.  In addition, declines in fixed income yields would result in decreases in net investment income from future investment activity, including re-investments.  Further disruptions in global financial markets could also adversely impact our net investment income in future periods from our non-fixed income investment portfolio, including the private equity, hedge fund and real estate partnerships in which we are invested and could also result in net realized investment losses resulting from potential impairments in that portfolio. • Inflation. It is possible that changes in economic conditions and steps taken by the federal government and the Federal Reserve in response to COVID-19 could lead to higher inflation than we had anticipated, which could in turn lead to an increase in our loss costs and the need to strengthen loss reserves. These impacts could be more pronounced for those lines of business that require a relatively longer period of time to finalize and settle claims for a given accident year and, accordingly, are relatively more inflation sensitive.  Inflation could also adversely impact our general and administrative expenses.  Changes in interest rates caused by inflation affect the carrying value of our fixed maturity investments and returns on our fixed maturity and short-term investments. An increase in interest rates reduces the market value of existing fixed maturity investments, thereby negatively impacting our book value. • Adverse Legislative and/or Regulatory Action. Federal, state and/or local government actions to address and contain the impact of COVID-19 have adversely affected us and may adversely affect us in the future.  For example, we are subject to legislative and/or regulatory action that seeks to retroactively mandate coverage for losses which our insurance policies were not designed or priced to cover. Currently, in some states there is proposed legislation to require insurers to cover business interruption claims irrespective of terms, exclusions or other conditions included in the policies that would otherwise preclude coverage.  In addition, a number of states have instituted, and other states are considering instituting, changes designed to effectively expand workers' compensation coverage by creating presumptions of compensability of claims for certain types of workers. Regulatory restrictions or requirements have impacted or may impact pricing, risk selection and our rights and obligations with respect to our policies and insureds, including our ability to cancel and non-renew policies and to collect premiums.  Several state regulators have issued orders, and may issue additional orders, requiring insurers to issue premium refunds or reduce rates, and regulators in other states could take similar actions.  Many insurers, including us, have also voluntarily provided, and may further provide, premium refunds or rate reductions to their customers.  If loss activity resumes faster than expected and we have difficulty getting rate increases approved, our profitability could be adversely impacted. It is also possible that changes in economic conditions and steps taken in response to COVID-19 could require an increase in taxes at the federal, state and local levels, which would adversely impact our results of operations. • Operational Disruptions and Heightened Cybersecurity Risks. Our operations could be disrupted if key members of our senior management or a significant percentage of our workforce or the workforce of our agents, brokers, suppliers or outsourcing providers are unable to continue to work because of illness, government directives or otherwise.  In addition, the interruption of our or their system capabilities could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions. Having shifted to remote working arrangements, we also face a heightened risk of cybersecurity attacks or data security incidents and are more dependent on internet and telecommunications access and capabilities. 51 • Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Changes. As a result of our business outside of the United States, primarily in Canada, the United Kingdom (including Lloyd’s), the Republic of Ireland and in Brazil through a joint venture, our shareholders' equity is also subject to the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates associated with the strengthening of the U.S. dollar in comparison to other currencies. As a result of the above risks, COVID-19 could materially and adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity.  For a further discussion of risks that can impact us as a result of an economic downturn, see “During or following a period of financial market disruption or an economic downturn, our business could be materially and adversely affected” above and “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Outlook.” The intense competition that we face, and the impact of innovation, technological change and changing customer preferences on the insurance industry and the markets in which we operate, could harm our ability to maintain or increase our business volumes and our profitability. The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive, and we believe that it will remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. We compete with both domestic and foreign insurers, including an increasing number of start-ups, which may offer products at prices and on terms that are not consistent with our economic standards in an effort to maintain or increase their business. The competitive environment in which we operate could also be impacted by current general economic conditions, which could reduce the volume of business available to us as well as to our competitors. In recent years, pension and hedge funds and other entities with substantial available capital and potentially lower return objectives have increasingly sought to participate in the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance businesses.  Well-capitalized new entrants to the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industries and existing competitors that receive substantial infusions of capital may conduct business in ways that adversely impact our business volumes and profitability. Further, an expanded supply of reinsurance capital may lower costs for insurers that rely significantly on reinsurance and, as a consequence, those insurers may be able to price their products more competitively.  In addition, the competitive environment could be impacted by changes in customer preferences, including customer demand for direct distribution channels and/or greater choice, not only in personal lines, but also in commercial lines (where direct writers may become a more significant source of competition in the future, particularly in the small commercial market).  Similarly, comparative rating technology has impacted competition in personal lines and is starting to be used to access comparative rates for small commercial business as well, and that trend is likely to continue and may accelerate.  In recent years, there have been new entrants into the small commercial business and this trend may continue. Customer behavior could also evolve in the future towards buying insurance in point-of-sale or other non-traditional distribution channels where we may not have a meaningful presence or which are designed to sell products that we currently do not provide.  Consolidation within the insurance industry also could impact our business volumes and/or the rates or terms of our products. Other technological changes also present competitive risks.  For example, our competitive position could be impacted if we are unable to deploy, in a cost effective and competitive manner, technology such as artificial intelligence and machine learning that collects and analyzes a wide variety of data points (so-called “big data” analysis) to make underwriting or other decisions, or if our competitors collect and use data which we do not have the ability to access or use.  In addition, innovations, such as telematics and other usage-based methods of determining premiums, can impact product design and pricing and are becoming an increasingly important competitive factor. Competitive dynamics may impact the success of efforts to improve our underwriting margins on our insurance products. These efforts could include seeking improved rates or improved terms and conditions, and could also include other initiatives, such as reducing operating expenses and acquisition costs.  These efforts may not be successful and/or may result in lower business volumes.  In addition, if our underwriting is not effective, further efforts to increase rates could also lead to “adverse selection”, whereby accounts retained have higher losses, and are less profitable, than accounts lost.   For more detail, see "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Outlook." Similar to other industries, the insurance industry is undergoing rapid and significant technological and other change.  Traditional insurance industry participants, technology companies, “InsurTech” start-up companies, the number of which has increased significantly in recent years and some of which are supported by traditional insurance industry participants, and others are focused on using technology and innovation to simplify and improve the customer experience, increase efficiencies, redesign products, alter business or distribution models and effect other potentially disruptive changes in the insurance industry.  If we do not anticipate, keep pace with and adapt to technological and other changes impacting the insurance industry, it will harm our ability to compete, decrease the value of our products to customers, and materially and adversely affect our business.  Furthermore, innovation, technological change and changing customer preferences in the markets in which we operate also pose risks to our business.  For example, technologies such as driverless vehicles, assisted-driving or accident prevention technologies, technologies that facilitate ride or home sharing, smart homes or automation could reduce the number of vehicles in use and/or the demand for, or profitability of, certain of our products, create coverage issues or impact the frequency or 52 severity of losses, and we may not be able to respond effectively.  While there is substantial uncertainty as to the timing of any impact, in the case of driverless vehicles in particular, new legal frameworks or business practices could be adopted that reduce the size of the auto insurance market. If competition or technological or other changes to the markets in which we operate limit our ability to retain existing business or write new business at adequate rates or on appropriate terms, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.  See "Competition" sections of the discussion on business segments in "Item 1—Business."  Technological change can impact us in other ways as well.  For example, rapid changes in the sophistication and use of certain types of cyber-attacks, such as ransomware, on our insureds can increase the frequency and severity of losses under our cyber policies. There is significant competition from within the property and casualty insurance industry and from businesses outside the industry for qualified employees, especially those in key positions and those possessing highly specialized knowledge in areas such as underwriting, data and analytics, technology and e-commerce. If we are not able to successfully attract, retain and motivate our employees, our business, financial results and reputation could be materially and adversely affected. Disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers or our inability to manage effectively a changing distribution landscape could adversely affect us .  We market our insurance products primarily through independent agents and brokers.  An important part of our business is written through less than a dozen such intermediaries, including the agency affiliate of GEICO, with whom we have had a distribution arrangement for homeowners' business since 1995. Further, there has been a trend of increased consolidation by agents and brokers, which could impact our relationships with, and fees paid to, some agents and brokers, and/or otherwise negatively impact the pricing or distribution of our products. Agents and brokers may increasingly compete with us to the extent that markets increasingly provide them with direct access to providers of capital seeking exposure to insurance risk or if they become affiliated with carriers that compete with us. In all of the foregoing situations, loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided through such agents and brokers could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. Our efforts or the efforts of agents and brokers with respect to new products or markets, alternate distribution channels, changes to commission terms as well as changes in the way agents and brokers utilize data and technology, including in ways that may be in direct competition with us, could adversely impact our business relationship with independent agents and brokers who currently market our products, resulting in a lower volume and/or profitability of business generated from these sources. In certain markets, brokers increasingly have been packaging portfolios of risks together and offering them to fewer carriers.  In these and other situations, agents and brokers have an increased influence over policy language and compensation structure which, if we participate on that basis, could adversely impact our ability to profitably manage underwriting risk. It could also lead to commoditization of products, which could increase the focus on price and cost management and decrease our ability to differentiate our products in the marketplace with customers based on other factors. Customers in the past have brought claims against us for the actions of our agents.  Even with proper controls in place, actual or alleged errors or inaccuracies by our agents could result in our involvement in disputes, litigation or regulatory actions. Our efforts to develop new products, expand in targeted markets, improve business processes and workflows or make acquisitions may not be successful and may create enhanced risks. From time to time, to protect and grow market share and/or improve our productivity and efficiency, we invest in strategic initiatives and pursue acquisitions. These efforts may require us to make substantial expenditures and not be successful, and even if successful, they may create additional risks: • Changes to our business processes or workflow, including the use of new technologies, may give rise to execution risk; • Models underlying automated underwriting and pricing decisions may not be effective; • Demand for new products or expansion into new markets may not meet our expectations; • New products and expansion into new markets may change our risk exposures, and the data and models we use to manage such exposures may not be as effective as those we use in existing markets or with existing products; • Acquisitions may not be successfully integrated, resulting in substantial disruption, costs or delays and adversely affecting our ability to compete, and may also result in unforeseen liabilities or impact our credit ratings; and • In connection with the conversion of policyholders to a new product, some policyholders’ pricing may increase while the pricing for other policyholders may decrease, the net impact of which could negatively impact retention and profit margins. These efforts may require us to make substantial expenditures, which may negatively impact results in the near term, and if not successful, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 53 We may be adversely affected if our pricing and capital models provide materially different indications than actual results. Our profitability substantially depends on the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in pricing our policies. We utilize proprietary and third-party models to help us price business in a manner that is intended to be consistent, over time, with actual results and return objectives. We incorporate our historical loss experience, external industry and other data, and economic indices into our modeling processes, and we use various methods, including predictive modeling, forecasting and sophisticated simulation modeling techniques, to analyze loss trends and the risks associated with our assets and liabilities. We also use these modeling processes, analyses and methods in making underwriting, pricing and reinsurance decisions as part of managing our exposure to catastrophes and other extreme adverse events. These modeling processes incorporate numerous assumptions and forecasts about the future level and variability of the frequency and severity of losses, inflation, interest rates and capital requirements, among others, that are difficult to make and may differ materially from actual results. In addition, as the number of third-party models increases, it becomes more difficult to validate, manage and integrate such models as they evolve over time, and the risk associated with assimilating the output from such models into our decisions increases. If we fail to appropriately price the risks we insure or fail to change our pricing models to appropriately reflect our experience, or if our claims experience is more frequent or severe than our underlying risk assumptions, for example due to changing climate conditions, legislative or regulatory changes, changes in behavior such as distracted driving or a more aggressive tort environment, our profit margins may be negatively affected.  If we underestimate the frequency and/or severity of extreme adverse events occurring, our financial condition may be adversely affected. If we overestimate the risks we are exposed to, we may overprice our products, and new business growth and retention of our existing business may be adversely affected.  See "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Catastrophe Modeling." We are subject to additional risks associated with our business outside the United States. We conduct business outside the United States primarily in Canada, the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland. In addition, we conduct business in Brazil and Colombia through joint ventures. We may also explore opportunities in other countries. In conducting business outside of the United States, we are subject to a number of risks, particularly in emerging economies. These risks include restrictions such as price controls, capital controls, currency exchange limits, ownership limits and other restrictive or anti-competitive governmental actions or requirements, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. A portion of our premiums from outside of the United States is generated in Canada, a substantial portion of which consists of automobile premiums from the province of Ontario, which is a highly regulated market that can result in rate inadequacy. Our business activities outside the United States may also subject us to currency risk and, in some markets, it may be difficult to effectively hedge that risk, or we may choose not to hedge that risk. In addition, in some markets, we invest as part of a joint venture with a local counterparty. Because our governance rights may be limited, we may not have control over the ability of the joint venture to make certain decisions and/or mitigate risks it faces, and significant disagreements with a joint venture counterparty may adversely impact our investment and/or reputation.  Our business activities outside the United States could subject us to increased volatility in earnings resulting from the need to recognize and subsequently revise a valuation allowance associated with income taxes if we became unable to fully utilize any deferred tax assets, including loss carry-forwards from those foreign operations.  Also, political instability could result in financial market disruption or an economic downturn in such regions.  The U.K.'s withdrawal from the European Union, for example, could have economic impacts such as inflation and decreased GDP in the U.K. and in regions that trade with the U.K. For certain specialty business, we give managing general agents binding authority, which exposes us to additional risks. Our business activities outside the United States also subject us to additional domestic and foreign laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws in other countries that prohibit the making of improper payments to foreign officials.  Although we have policies and controls in place that are designed to ensure compliance with these laws, if those controls are ineffective and/or an employee or intermediary fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties and our business and our reputation could be adversely affected. Some countries, particularly emerging economies, have laws and regulations that lack clarity and, even with local expertise and effective controls, it can be difficult to determine the exact requirements of, and potential liability under, the local laws.  In some jurisdictions, including Brazil, parties to a joint venture may, in some circumstances, have liability for some obligations of the venture, and that liability may extend beyond the capital invested. Failure to comply with local laws in a particular market may result in substantial liability and could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. Loss of or significant restrictions on the use of particular types of underwriting criteria, such as credit scoring, or other data or methodologies, in the pricing and underwriting of our products could reduce our future profitability. Our underwriting profitability depends in large part on our ability to competitively price our products at a level that will adequately compensate us for the risks assumed.  As a result, risk selection and pricing through the application of actuarially sound and segmented underwriting criteria is critical.  However, laws or regulations, or judicial or administrative findings, could significantly curtail the use of particular types of underwriting criteria.  For example, we may use credit scoring as a factor in 54 pricing decisions where allowed by state law. Some consumer groups and/or regulators have alleged that the use of credit scoring violates the law by discriminating against persons belonging to a protected class and are calling for the prohibition or restrictions on the use of credit scoring in underwriting and pricing.  A variety of other underwriting criteria and other data or methodologies used in personal and commercial insurance have been and continue to be criticized by regulators, government agencies, consumer groups or individuals on similar or other grounds, such as the impact of external data sources, algorithms and predictive models on protected classes of customers. Resulting legislative or regulatory actions or litigation could result in negative publicity and/or generate adverse rules or findings, such as curtailing the use of important underwriting criteria, or other data or methodologies, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Technology and Intellectual Property Risks Our business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology, particularly as our business processes become more digital. We depend in large part on our technology systems for conducting business and processing claims, as well as for providing the data and analytics we utilize to manage our business.  As a result, our business success is dependent on maintaining the effectiveness of existing technology systems and on continuing to develop and enhance technology systems that support our business processes and strategic initiatives in an efficient manner, particularly as our business processes become more digital.  Some system development projects are long-term in nature, may negatively impact our expense ratios as we invest in the projects and may cost more than we expect to complete. In addition, system development projects may not deliver the benefits or perform as expected, or may be replaced or become obsolete more quickly than expected, which could result in operational difficulties, additional costs or accelerated recognition of expenses. If we do not effectively and efficiently manage and upgrade our technology portfolio, or if the costs of doing so are higher than we expect, our ability to provide competitive services to, and conduct business with, new and existing customers in a cost effective manner and our ability to implement our strategic initiatives could be adversely impacted. If we experience difficulties with technology, data and network security (including as a result of cyber attacks), outsourcing relationships or cloud-based technology, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted. A shut-down of, or inability to access, one or more of our facilities (including our primary data processing facility); a power outage; or a failure of one or more of our systems could significantly impair our ability to perform necessary business functions on a timely basis. In the event of a computer virus or natural or other disaster, our systems could be inaccessible for an extended period of time.  In addition, because our systems increasingly interface with and depend on third-party systems, including cloud-based, we could experience service denials or failures of controls if demand for our service exceeds capacity or a third-party system fails or experiences an interruption.  Business interruptions and failures of controls could also result if our internal systems do not interface with each other as intended or if changes to such systems or our other business processes, such as new payment technologies, are not effectively implemented.  Business continuity can also be disrupted by an event, such as a pandemic, that renders large numbers of a workforce unable to work as needed, particularly at critical locations. If our business continuity plans do not sufficiently address a business interruption, system failure or service denial, this could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions.  In addition, should internet disruptions occur, or frustration with our business platforms or distribution initiatives develop among our independent agents and brokers, any resulting loss of business could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Computer viruses, hackers and employee or vendor misconduct, and other external hazards (such as imposter scams), could expose our data systems to security breaches, cyber-attacks or other disruptions. Increased use of data supplied by third parties in our business increases our exposure to this risk.  While we attempt to develop secure transmission capabilities with third-party vendors and others with whom we do business, we may not be successful and, in addition, these third parties may not have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information. Like other global companies, our computer systems are regularly subject to and will continue to be the target of computer viruses, malware or other malicious codes (including ransomware), unauthorized access, cyber-attacks or other computer-related penetrations.  While we have experienced threats to our data and systems, to date, we are not aware that we have experienced a material cyber-security breach. However, over time, the sophistication of these threats continues to increase. The preventative actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information may be insufficient.  In addition, new technology that could result in greater operational efficiency may further expose our computer systems to the risk of cyber-attacks.  Also, our increased use of open source software, cloud technology and software as a service can make it more difficult to identify and remedy such situations due to the disparate location of code utilized in our operations. 55 We have outsourced certain technology and business process functions to third parties and may increasingly do so in the future. If we do not effectively develop, implement and monitor our vendor relationships, if third party providers do not perform as anticipated, if we experience technological or other problems with a transition, or if vendor relationships relevant to our business process functions are terminated, we may not realize expected productivity improvements or cost efficiencies and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business . Our outsourcing of certain technology and business process functions to third parties may expose us to increased risk related to data security, service disruptions or the effectiveness of our control system. These risks could increase as vendors increasingly offer cloud-based software services rather than software services which can be run within our data centers or as we choose to move additional functions to the cloud. The increased risks identified above could expose us to data loss or manipulation, disruption of service, monetary and reputational damages, competitive disadvantage and significant increases in compliance costs and costs to improve the security and resiliency of our computer systems. The compromise of personal, confidential or proprietary information could also subject us to legal liability or regulatory action under evolving cyber-security, data protection and privacy laws and regulations enacted by the U.S. federal and state governments, Canada, the European Union or other jurisdictions or by various regulatory organizations or exchanges. As a result, our ability to conduct our business and our results of operations might be materially and adversely affected. Intellectual property is important to our business, and we may be unable to protect and enforce our own intellectual property or we may be subject to claims for infringing the intellectual property of others. Our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our proprietary trademarks, technology and other intellectual property.   See "Item 1—Business—Other Information—Intellectual Property." We may not, however, be able to protect our intellectual property from unauthorized use and disclosure by others. Further, the intellectual property laws may not prevent our competitors from independently developing trademarks, products and services that are similar to ours. We may incur significant costs in our efforts to protect and enforce our intellectual property, including the initiation of expensive and protracted litigation, and we may not prevail. Any inability to enforce our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. We may be subject to claims by third parties from time to time that our products, services and technologies infringe on their intellectual property rights. In recent years, certain entities have acquired patents in order to allege claims of infringement against companies, including in some cases, us.  Any intellectual property infringement claims brought against us could cause us to spend significant time and money to defend ourselves, regardless of the merits of the claims. If we are found to infringe any third-party intellectual property rights, it could result in reputational harm, payment of significant monetary damages or fees and/or substantial time and expense to redesign our products, services or technologies to avoid the infringement. In addition, we use third-party software in some of our products, services and technologies.  If any of our software vendors or licensors are faced with infringement claims, we may lose our ability to use such software until the dispute is resolved.  If we cannot successfully redesign an infringing product, service or technology (or procure a substitute version), this could have a material adverse effect on our business and ability to compete. Regulatory and Compliance Risks Our businesses are heavily regulated by the states and countries in which we conduct business, including licensing, market conduct and financial supervision, and changes in regulation, including higher tax rates, may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. These regulatory systems are generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, and not necessarily the interests of insurers, their shareholders and other investors.  For example, to protect policyholders whose insurance company becomes financially insolvent, guaranty funds have been established in all 50 states to pay the covered claims of policyholders in the event of an insolvency of an insurer, subject to applicable state limits.  The funding of guaranty funds is provided through assessments levied against remaining insurers in the marketplace.  As a result, the insolvency of one or more insurance companies or an increase in amounts paid by guaranty funds could result in additional assessments levied against us. These regulatory systems also address authorization for lines of business, statutory capital and surplus requirements, limitations on the types and amounts of certain investments, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurer’s business including, recently, cyber-security.  In addition, many jurisdictions restrict the timing and/or the ability of an insurer to discontinue writing a line of business or to cancel or non-renew certain policies. Insurance regulators may also increase the statutory capital and surplus requirements for our insurance subsidiaries or reject rate increases or other terms and conditions due to the economic environment or other factors. In addition, state tax laws that specifically impact the insurance industry, such as premium taxes, or more general tax laws, such as U.S. federal corporate taxes, could be enacted or changed and could 56 have a material adverse impact on us. Other legislative actions could impact our business as well.  For example, changes to state law regarding workers' compensation insurance could impact the demand for our products, and the legalization of cannabis in certain states could potentially increase loss costs.  In addition, the potential repeal of the McCarran-Ferguson Act (which exempts insurance from most federal regulation) or a change to the federal health care system that eliminates or reduces the need for the medical coverage component of workers' compensation insurance , could also significantly harm the insurance industry, including us. State, federal or international laws or regulations that are adopted or amended may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and may result in lower revenues and/or higher costs of compliance and, as a result, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.  See also “Item 1 – Business – Regulation.” We could be adversely affected if our controls designed to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to engage on a daily basis in a large number of insurance underwriting, claim processing and investment activities, many of which are highly complex.  These activities often are subject to internal guidelines and policies, as well as legal and regulatory standards. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met.  If our controls, or the controls of our joint ventures or recently acquired businesses, are not effective (including with respect to the prevention or identification of misconduct by employees or others with whom we do business), it could lead to financial loss, unanticipated risk exposure (including underwriting, credit and investment risk), errors in financial reporting, litigation, regulatory proceedings or damage to our reputation.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following is a discussion and analysis of the Company’s financial condition and results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, including year-to-year comparisons between 2020 and 2019.  Year-to-year comparisons between 2019 and 2018 have been omitted from this Form 10-K, but may be found in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2020 Consolidated Results of Operations • Net income of $2.70 billion, or $10.56 per share basic and $10.52 per share diluted • Net earned premiums of $29.04 billion • Catastrophe losses of $1.61 billion ($1.27 billion after-tax) • Net favorable prior year reserve development of $351 million ($276 million after-tax) • Combined ratio of 95.0% • Net investment income of $2.23 billion ($1.91 billion after-tax) • Operating cash flows of $6.52 billion 2020 Consolidated Financial Condition • Total investments of $84.42 billion; fixed maturities and short-term securities comprise 94% of total investments • Total assets of $116.76 billion • Total debt of $6.55 billion, resulting in a debt-to-total capital ratio of 18.3% (20.7% excluding net unrealized investment gains, net of tax, included in shareholders' equity) • Repurchased 5.2 million common shares for total cost of $672 million and paid $861 million of dividends to shareholders • Shareholders’ equity of $29.20 billion • Net unrealized investment gains of $5.18 billion ($4.07 billion after-tax) • Book value per common share of $115.68 • Holding company liquidity of $1.69 billion 61 CONSOLIDATED OVERVIEW Consolidated Results of Operations The following discussions of the Company’s net income and segment income are presented on an after-tax basis.  Discussions of the components of net income and segment income are presented on a pre-tax basis, unless otherwise noted.  Discussions of earnings per common share are presented on a diluted basis. Overview Diluted net income per share of $10.52 in 2020 increased by 6% over diluted net income per share of $9.92 in 2019.  Net income of $2.70 billion in 2020 increased by 3% over net income of $2.62 billion in 2019.  The higher rate of increase in diluted net income per share reflected the impact of share repurchases in recent periods. The increase in income before income taxes primarily reflected the pre-tax impacts of (i) higher underwriting margins excluding catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development ("underlying underwriting margins") and (ii) net favorable prior year reserve development in 2020, compared to net unfavorable prior year reserve development in 2019, partially offset by (iii) higher catastrophe losses, (iv) lower net investment income and (v) lower net realized investment gains.  Catastrophe losses in 2020 and 2019 were $1.61 billion and $886 million, respectively. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2020 was $351 million, compared to net unfavorable prior year reserve development of $60 million in 2019.  The higher underlying underwriting margins in 2020 were driven by Personal Insurance and Business Insurance, partially offset by Bond & Specialty Insurance.  Income tax expense in 2020 was higher than in 2019, primarily reflecting the impact of the increase in income before income taxes. Impact of COVID-19 and Related Economic Conditions Beginning in March 2020 and continuing through the end of 2020, the global pandemic caused by the novel coronavirus COVID-19 (“COVID-19”) and related economic conditions impacted the Company's results of operations.  The Company's underwriting margins were impacted as follows: 62 • Earned premiums were negatively impacted by premium refunds in Personal Insurance provided to personal automobile customers.  In Business Insurance, earned premiums were negatively impacted by a modest reduction in exposures and reduced levels of new business.  Additionally, Business Insurance earned premiums were negatively impacted by reductions in the Company's estimate of ultimate audit premiums receivable.  Earned premiums in Bond & Specialty Insurance were not materially impacted by COVID-19 and related economic conditions. • Claims and claim adjustment expenses in Business Insurance included modestly lower loss estimates in certain product lines, primarily commercial automobile, partially offset by modestly higher loss estimates in certain other product lines, primarily workers' compensation and commercial property. Claims and claim adjustment expenses in Bond & Specialty Insurance were negatively impacted by higher loss estimates for management liability coverages. Claims and claim adjustment expenses in Personal Insurance were favorably impacted by lower loss estimates in the automobile product line, largely due to the impact of a decrease in miles driven. • General and administrative expenses were modestly impacted by an increased allowance for expected credit losses on premiums receivable in all segments and higher contingent commission expense in Personal Insurance, partially offset by lower travel-related expenses in all business segments. In addition to the foregoing impacts on its underwriting margins, the Company also experienced the following impacts of COVID-19 and related economic conditions: • Other income was negatively impacted by declines in installment premium charges attributable to the impact of billing relief actions offered to customers. • Net investment income from the Company's other investments of $209 million was impacted by continued volatility in global financial markets. Other investments include private equity, hedge fund and real estate partnerships that are accounted for under the equity method of accounting and typically report their financial statement information to the Company one month to three months following the end of the reporting period.  Accordingly, the impact of any volatility in global financial markets on net investment income from these other investments is generally reflected in the Company's financial statements on a quarter lag basis. For further discussion regarding the potential future impacts of COVID-19 and related economic conditions on the Company, see "Outlook" and "Part I—Item 1A—Risk Factors." The Company has insurance operations in Canada, the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland and throughout other parts of the world as a corporate member of Lloyd’s, as well as in Brazil and Colombia, primarily through joint ventures.  Because these operations are conducted in local currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the Company is subject to changes in foreign currency exchange rates.  For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, changes in foreign currency exchange rates impacted reported line items in the statement of income by insignificant amounts.  The impact of these changes was not material to the Company’s net income or segment income for the periods reported. Revenues Earned Premiums Earned premiums in 2020 were $29.04 billion, $772 million or 3% higher than in 2019.  In Business Insurance, earned premiums in 2020 were comparable with  2019. Earned premiums in Business Insurance in 2020 were negatively impacted by a modest reduction in exposures and a decrease in new business volume, as well as reductions in the Company's estimate of ultimate audit premiums receivable, in each case impacted by COVID-19 and related economic conditions.  In Bond & Specialty Insurance, earned premiums in 2020 increased by 10% over 2019.  Earned premiums in Bond & Specialty Insurance in 2020 were not materially impacted by COVID-19 and related economic conditions. In Personal Insurance, earned premiums in 2020 increased by 5% over 2019. Earned premiums in Personal Insurance in 2020 were reduced by premium refunds provided to personal automobile customers in response to COVID-19 and related economic conditions.  Factors contributing to the levels of earned premiums in each segment in 2020 as compared with 2019 are discussed in more detail in the segment discussions that follow. Net Investment Income The following table sets forth information regarding the Company’s investments. 63 ___________________________________________ (1) Excludes net unrealized investment gains and losses and reflects cash, receivables for investment sales, payables on investment purchases and accrued investment income. (2) Excludes net realized and net unrealized investment gains and losses. Net investment income in 2020 was $2.23 billion, $241 million or 10% lower than in  2019.  Net investment income from fixed maturity investments in 2020 was $2.01 billion, $59 million lower than in 2019. The decrease primarily resulted from lower long-term interest rates, partially offset by a higher average level of fixed maturity investments. Net investment income from short-term securities in 2020 was $44 million, $61 million lower than in 2019. The decrease primarily resulted from lower short-term interest rates.  Net investment income generated by the Company's remaining investment portfolios in 2020 was $209 million, $124 million lower than in 2019. The decline in net investment income from these portfolios in 2020 compared with 2019 primarily reflected the impact of the disruption in global financial markets associated with COVID-19.  Included in other investments are private equity, hedge fund and real estate partnerships that are accounted for under the equity method of accounting and typically report their financial statement information to the Company one month to three months following the end of the reporting period.  Accordingly, the impact of any volatility in global financial markets, including the impact of COVID-19 during 2020, on net investment income from these other investments is generally reflected in the Company's financial statements on a quarter lag basis. Fee Income The National Accounts market in Business Insurance is the primary source of the Company’s fee-based business.  Fee income is described in more detail in the Business Insurance discussion that follows. Net Realized Investment Gains The following table sets forth information regarding the Company’s net pre-tax realized investment gains. In the second quarter of 2020, the Company recorded a $40 million credit impairment loss from the other-than-temporary impairment of the carrying value of a joint venture investment included in other investments. Other net realized investment gains in 2020 included $67 million of net realized investment gains related to fixed maturity investments, $17 million of net realized investment losses related to equity securities sold and $18 million of net realized investment losses related to other investments.  Other net realized investment gains in 2019 included $59 million of net realized investment gains related to fixed maturity investments, $12 million of net realized investment gains related to equity securities sold and $15 million of net realized investment losses related to foreign currency translation and other investments. Other Revenues Other revenues in all years presented included revenues from Simply Business and installment premium charges. 64 Claims and Expenses Claims and Claim Adjustment Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2020 were $19.12 billion, comparable with 2019, primarily reflecting (i) lower losses in the automobile product line in Personal Insurance due to a decrease in miles driven attributable to COVID-19 and related economic conditions, (ii) net favorable prior year reserve development as compared with net unfavorable prior year reserve development in 2019 and (iii) lower non-catastrophe weather-related losses in Personal Insurance, largely offset by (iv) higher catastrophe losses, (v) loss cost trends, (vi) higher loss estimates for management liability coverages in Bond & Specialty Insurance, primarily due to the impact of COVID-19 and related economic conditions, and (vii) higher business volumes.   Catastrophes in 2020 primarily resulted from the derecho windstorm in the midwestern region of the United States, the Glass wildfire in California, Tropical Storm Isaias, Hurricanes Zeta and Laura, additional wildfires in the western United States, tornado activity in Tennessee, other severe wind storms and winter storms in several regions of the United States and civil unrest. Catastrophes in 2019 primarily resulted from Hurricane Dorian and several winter, wind and hail storms throughout the United States.  Catastrophe and non-catastrophe weather-related losses, including losses from wildfires, in 2020 were reduced by the full $280 million of recoveries available under the Company's 2020 Underlying Property Aggregate Catastrophe Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Treaty. Catastrophe and non-catastrophe weather-related losses in 2019 were reduced by $135 million of recoveries available under the Company's 2019 Underlying Property Aggregate Catastrophe Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Treaty. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2020 included subrogation recoveries related to wildfires in California in 2017 and 2018, which are discussed in more detail in note 8 of notes to the consolidated financial statements.  Factors contributing to net prior year reserve development during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 are discussed in more detail in note 8 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. Significant Catastrophe Losses The Company defines a “catastrophe” as an event: • that is designated a catastrophe by internationally recognized organizations that track and report on insured losses resulting from catastrophic events, such as Property Claim Services (PCS) for events in the United States and Canada; and • for which the Company’s estimates of its ultimate losses before reinsurance and taxes exceed a pre-established dollar threshold. The Company’s threshold for disclosing catastrophes is primarily determined at the reportable segment level. If a threshold for one segment or a combination thereof is exceeded and the other segments have losses from the same event, losses from the event are identified as catastrophe losses in the segment results and for the consolidated results of the Company.  Additionally, an aggregate threshold is applied for International business across all reportable segments. The threshold for 2020 ranged from approximately $20 million to $30 million of losses before reinsurance and taxes. The following table presents the amount of losses recorded by the Company for significant catastrophes that occurred in 2020, 2019 and 2018, the amount of net unfavorable (favorable) prior year reserve development recognized in 2020 and 2019 for catastrophes that occurred in 2019 and 2018, and the estimate of ultimate losses for those catastrophes at December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018.  For purposes of the table, a significant catastrophe is an event for which the Company estimates its ultimate losses will be $100 million or more after reinsurance and before taxes. 65 ___________________________________________ (1)  Amounts are reported pre-tax and net of recoveries under all applicable reinsurance treaties, except for the Company's 2020 and 2019 Underlying Property Aggregate Catastrophe Excess-of-Loss Treaties. Those treaties covered the accumulation of certain property losses arising from one or multiple occurrences (both catastrophe and non-catastrophe events) for the period January 1, 2020 through and including December 31, 2020, and the period January 1, 2019 through and including December 31, 2019, respectively.  As a result, the benefit from those treaties are not included in the table as the allocation of the treaties' benefit to each identified catastrophe changes each time there are additional events or changes in estimated losses from any covered event. (2)  Favorable prior year reserve development in 2020 included the benefit of PG&E subrogation recoveries applicable to this event, which are discussed in more detail in note 8 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. (3) In addition to the Glass fire, there were 16 other PCS-designated wildfires in 2020.  While none of the 16 wildfires were individually large enough to meet the Company's threshold for disclosure as a significant catastrophe in this table, total losses from those wildfires were $169 million, of which two wildfires totaling $73 million met the Company's threshold for disclosure as catastrophes. n/a: not applicable. Amortization of Deferred Acquisition Costs Amortization of deferred acquisition costs in 2020 was $4.77 billion, $172 million or 4% higher than in 2019.  The increase in 2020 was generally consistent with the increase in earned premium before the impact of premium refunds referred to above. Amortization of deferred acquisition costs is discussed in more detail in the segment discussions that follow. 66 General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses in 2020 were $4.51 billion, $144 million or 3% higher than in 2019, primarily reflecting the impact of costs associated with higher business volumes. General and administrative expenses are discussed in more detail in the segment discussions that follow. Interest Expense Interest expense in 2020 and 2019 was $339 million and $344 million, respectively. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense in 2020 was $540 million, $24 million or 5% higher than in 2019, primarily reflecting the impact of the $99 million increase in income before income taxes in 2020. The Company’s effective tax rate was 17% and 16% in 2020 and 2019, respectively.  The effective tax rates in both years were lower than the statutory rate of 21%, primarily due to the impact of tax-exempt investment income on the calculation of the Company’s income tax provision. Combined Ratio The combined ratio of 95.0% in 2020 was 1.5 points lower than the combined ratio of 96.5% in 2019.  The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 65.1% in 2020 was 1.8 points lower than the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 66.9% in  2019.  The underwriting expense ratio of 29.9% in 2020 was 0.3 points higher than the underwriting expense ratio of 29.6% in 2019. Catastrophe losses in 2020 and 2019 accounted for 5.5 points and 3.1 points, respectively, of the combined ratio.  Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2020 provided 1.2 points of benefit to the combined ratio.  Net unfavorable prior year reserve development in 2019 accounted for 0.2 points of the combined ratio.  The combined ratio excluding prior year reserve development and catastrophe losses ("underlying combined ratio") in 2020 was 2.5 points lower than the 2019 ratio on the same basis, primarily reflecting (i) lower losses in the automobile product line in Personal Insurance due to a decrease in miles driven attributable to COVID-19 and related economic conditions (net of premium refunds provided to personal automobile customers), (ii) earned pricing that exceeded loss cost trends in Business Insurance and (iii) lower non-catastrophe weather-related losses in Personal Insurance, partially offset by (iv) higher loss estimates for management liability coverages in Bond & Specialty Insurance, primarily due to the impact of COVID-19 and related economic conditions. In recent periods, both prior year reserve development and the underlying combined ratio have been impacted by adverse developments in the tort environment, including more aggressive attorney involvement in insurance claims. Written Premiums Consolidated gross and net written premiums were as follows: 67 Gross and net written premiums in 2020 both increased by 2% over 2019.  Gross and net written premiums in Business Insurance in 2020 both decreased by 1% from 2019. Gross and net written premiums in Business Insurance in  2020 were negatively impacted by a modest reduction in exposures and a decrease in new business volume, both impacted by COVID-19 and related economic conditions. Gross and net written premiums in Bond & Specialty Insurance in 2020 increased by 9% and 8%, respectively, over 2019, primarily driven by increases in the management liability product line.  Gross and net written premiums in Bond & Specialty Insurance in 2020 were negatively impacted by lower surety volumes, primarily due to COVID-19 and related economic conditions.  Gross and net written premiums in Personal Insurance in 2020 both increased by 5% over 2019, primarily driven by increases in the homeowners and other product line. Gross and net written premiums in Personal Insurance in 2020 were negatively impacted by premium refunds provided to personal automobile customers in response to COVID-19 and related economic conditions.  Factors contributing to the changes in gross and net written premiums in each segment are discussed in more detail in the segment discussions that follow. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BY SEGMENT Business Insurance Results of Business Insurance were as follows: Overview Segment income in 2020 was $1.31 billion, $83 million or 6% lower than segment income of $1.39 billion in 2019. The decrease in segment income before income taxes primarily reflected the pre-tax impacts of (i) lower net investment income and (ii) higher catastrophe losses, partially offset by (iii) lower net unfavorable prior year reserve development and (iv) higher underlying underwriting margins.  Net unfavorable prior year reserve development in 2020 and 2019 was $91 million and $258 million, respectively.  Catastrophe losses in 2020 and 2019 were $645 million and $470 million, respectively. The higher underlying underwriting margins were impacted by earned pricing that exceeded loss cost trends.  COVID-19 and related economic conditions had a modest net unfavorable impact on underlying underwriting margins.  Income tax expense in 2020 was lower than in 2019, primarily reflecting the impact of the decrease in segment income before income taxes. 68 Revenues Earned Premiums Earned premiums of $15.29 billion in 2020 were comparable with 2019.  Earned premiums in 2020 were negatively impacted by a modest reduction in exposures and a decrease in new business volume, as well as reductions in the Company's estimate of ultimate audit premiums receivable, in each case impacted by COVID-19 and related economic conditions. Net Investment Income Net investment income in 2020 was $1.63 billion, $183 million or 10% lower than in 2019.  Refer to the “Net Investment Income” section of the “Consolidated Results of Operations” discussion for a description of the factors contributing to the decrease in the Company’s consolidated net investment income in 2020 compared with 2019. In addition, refer to note 2 of notes to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the Company’s net investment income allocation methodology. Fee Income National Accounts is the primary source of fee income due to revenue from its large deductible policies and service businesses, which include risk management, claims administration, loss control and risk management information services provided to third parties, as well as policy issuance and claims management services to workers’ compensation residual market pools.  Fee income in 2020 was $405 million, $32 million or 7% lower than in 2019, primarily reflecting lower claim volume under administration associated with its service businesses. Other Revenues Other revenues in 2020 were $176 million, $21 million or 14% higher than in 2019, primarily reflecting growth in revenues from Simply Business.  Other revenues also included installment premium charges and other policyholder service charges. Claims and Expenses Claims and Claim Adjustment Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2020 were $10.80 billion, $159 million or 1% lower than in 2019, primarily reflecting the impacts of (i) reduced exposures, including the impact of COVID-19 and related economic conditions, and also including a decrease in new business levels and (ii) lower net unfavorable prior year reserve development, partially offset by (iii) loss cost trends and (iv) higher catastrophe losses (net of recoveries under the property aggregate catastrophe reinsurance treaties discussed above). Net unfavorable prior year reserve development in 2020 included the favorable impact of subrogation recoveries related to wildfires in California in 2017 and 2018. Factors contributing to net prior year reserve development during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 are discussed in more detail in note 8 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. Amortization of Deferred Acquisition Costs Amortization of deferred acquisition costs in 2020 was $2.52 billion, $15 million or 1% higher than in 2019, generally consistent with the change in earned premiums. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses in 2020 were $2.66 billion, $37 million or 1% higher than in 2019. General and administrative expenses in 2019 included a benefit related to a state assessment.  General and administrative expenses in 2020 included the benefit of lower travel-related expenses, partially offset by an increased allowance for expected credit losses on premiums receivable, in each case attributable to the impact of COVID-19 and related economic conditions. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense in 2020 was $213 million, $10 million or 4% lower than in 2019, primarily reflecting the impact of the $93 million decrease in income before income taxes in 2020. 69 Combined Ratio The combined ratio of 100.3% in 2020 was 0.6 points lower than the combined ratio of 100.9% in 2019.  The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 69.4% in 2020 was 0.9 points lower than the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 70.3% in 2019.  The underwriting expense ratio of 30.9% in 2020 was 0.3 points higher than the underwriting expense ratio of 30.6% in 2019. Catastrophe losses in 2020 and 2019 accounted for 4.2 points and 3.0 points, respectively, of the combined ratio.  Net unfavorable prior year reserve development in 2020 and 2019 accounted for 0.6 points and 1.7 points, respectively, of the combined ratio.  The underlying combined ratio in 2020 was 0.7 points lower than the 2019 ratio on the same basis, impacted by earned pricing that exceeded loss cost trends. COVID-19 and related economic conditions had a modest net unfavorable impact on the underlying combined ratio. Written Premiums Business Insurance’s gross and net written premiums by market were as follows: Gross and net written premiums in 2020 both decreased by 1% from 2019.  Gross and net written premiums in 2020 were negatively impacted by a modest reduction in exposures and a decrease in new business volume, both impacted by COVID-19 and related economic conditions. Select Accounts .  Net written premiums of $2.82 billion in 2020 decreased by 3% from 2019.  Retention rates remained strong in 2020.  Renewal premium changes in 2020 remained positive but were lower than in 2019.  New business premiums in 2020 decreased from 2019. Middle Market .  Net written premiums of $8.51 billion in 2020 decreased by 1% from 2019.  Retention rates remained strong in 2020.  Renewal premium changes in 2020 remained positive and were higher than in 2019.  New business premiums in 2020 decreased from 2019. 70 National Accounts .  Net written premiums of $996 million in 2020 decreased by 5% from 2019.  Net written premiums in 2019 included a benefit related to a transaction to close out prior year liabilities with a former customer.  Retention rates remained strong in 2020.  Renewal premium changes in 2020 remained positive and were comparable to 2019.  New business premiums in 2020 decreased from 2019. National Property and Other. Net written premiums of $2.09 billion in 2020 increased by 6% over 2019.  Retention rates declined in 2020.  Renewal premium changes in 2020 remained positive and were higher than in 2019.  New business premiums in 2020 increased over  2019. International. Net written premiums of $1.02 billion in 2020 decreased by 5% from 2019, primarily driven by decreases in the Company's operations in Canada and at Lloyd's. Bond & Specialty Insurance Results of Bond & Specialty Insurance were as follows: Overview Segment income in 2020 was $473 million, $145 million or 23% lower than segment income of $618 million in 2019.  The decrease in segment income before income taxes primarily reflected the pre-tax impacts of (i) lower underlying underwriting margins, (ii) net unfavorable prior year reserve development of $1 million in 2020 compared to net favorable prior year reserve development of $65 million in 2019 and (iii) lower net investment income.  Catastrophe losses in 2020 and 2019 were $11 million and $5 million, respectively.  The lower underlying underwriting margins reflected the impacts of higher loss estimates for management liability coverages, primarily due to the impact of COVID-19 and related economic conditions, partially offset by higher business volumes.  Income tax expense in 2020 was lower than in 2019, primarily reflecting the impact of the decrease in segment income before income taxes. Revenues Earned Premiums Earned premiums in 2020 were $2.82 billion, $258 million or 10% higher than in 2019, primarily reflecting an increase in net written premiums over the preceding twelve months.  Earned premiums in 2020 were not materially impacted by COVID-19 and related economic conditions. Net Investment Income Net investment income in 2020 was $213 million, $20 million or 9% lower than in 2019. Included in Bond & Specialty Insurance are certain legal entities whose invested assets and related net investment income are reported exclusively in this 71 segment and not allocated among all business segments.  Refer to the “Net Investment Income” section of the “Consolidated Results of Operations” discussion for a description of the factors contributing to the decrease in the Company’s consolidated net investment income in 2020 as compared with the 2019.  In addition, refer to note 2 of notes to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the Company’s net investment income allocation methodology. Claims and Expenses Claims and Claim Adjustment Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2020 were $1.46 billion, $370 million or 34% higher than in 2019, primarily reflecting the impacts of (i) higher loss estimates for management liability coverages, primarily due to the impact of COVID-19 and related economic conditions, (ii) an insignificant amount of net unfavorable prior year reserve development in 2020 compared to net favorable prior year reserve development in 2019 and (iii) higher business volumes. Factors contributing to net prior year reserve development during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 are discussed in more detail in note 8 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. Amortization of Deferred Acquisition Costs Amortization of deferred acquisition costs in 2020 was $519 million, $41 million or 9% higher than in 2019, generally consistent with the increase in earned premiums. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses in 2020 were $500 million, $17 million or 4% higher than in 2019, primarily reflecting the impact of higher business volumes, partially offset by lower travel-related expenses attributable to COVID-19 and related economic conditions. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense in 2020 was $107 million, $44 million or 29% lower than in 2019, primarily reflecting the impact of the $189 million decrease in income before income taxes in 2020. Combined Ratio The combined ratio of 87.4% in 2020 was 7.9 points higher than the combined ratio of 79.5% in 2019.  The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 51.5% in 2020 was 9.3 points higher than the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 42.2% in 2019. The underwriting expense ratio of 35.9% in 2020 was 1.4 points lower than the underwriting expense ratio of 37.3% in 2019. Net unfavorable prior year reserve development had no impact on the combined ratio in 2020.  Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2019 provided 2.5 points of benefit to the combined ratio.  Catastrophe losses in 2020 and 2019 accounted for 0.4 points and 0.2 points, respectively, of the combined ratio.  The underlying combined ratio in 2020 was 5.2 points higher than the 2019 ratio on the same basis, reflecting the impact of higher loss estimates for management liability coverages, primarily due to the impact of COVID-19 and related economic conditions. 72 Written Premiums Bond & Specialty Insurance’s gross and net written premiums were as follows: Gross written premiums in 2020 increased by 9% over 2019.  Net written premiums in 2020 increased by 8% over 2019.  Gross and net written premiums in 2020 were negatively impacted by lower surety volumes, primarily due to COVID-19 and related economic conditions. Domestic .  Net written premiums in 2020 were $2.61 billion, $143 million or 6% higher than in 2019.  Excluding the surety line of business, for which the following are not relevant measures, retention rates remained strong in 2020.  Renewal premium changes in 2020 remained positive and were higher than in 2019.  New business premiums in 2020 decreased from 2019. International. Net written premiums in 2020 were $337 million, $69 million or 26% higher than in 2019, primarily driven by increases in the United Kingdom. 73 Personal Insurance Results of Personal Insurance were as follows: Overview Segment income in 2020 was $1.20 billion, $371 million or 45% higher than segment income of $824 million in 2019. The increase in segment income before income taxes primarily reflected the pre-tax impacts of (i) higher underlying underwriting margins and (ii) higher net favorable prior year reserve development, partially offset by (iii) higher catastrophe losses and (iv) lower net investment income.  Catastrophe losses in 2020 and 2019 were $957 million and $411 million, respectively. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2020 and 2019 was $443 million and $133 million, respectively. The higher underlying underwriting margins primarily reflected the impacts of lower losses in the automobile product line due to a decrease in miles driven attributable to COVID-19 and related economic conditions (net of premium refunds provided to personal automobile customers), lower non-catastrophe weather-related losses in the homeowners and other product line and higher business volumes.  Income tax expense in 2020 was higher than in 2019, primarily reflecting the impact of the increase in segment income before income taxes. Revenues Earned Premiums Earned premiums in 2020 were $10.93 billion, $520 million or 5% higher than in 2019, primarily reflecting an increase in net written premiums over the preceding twelve months, partially offset by the impact of premium refunds provided to personal automobile customers in response to COVID-19 and related economic conditions. Net Investment Income Net investment income in 2020 was $381 million, $38 million or 9% lower than in 2019. Refer to the “Net Investment Income” section of the “Consolidated Results of Operations” discussion for a description of the factors contributing to the decrease in the Company’s consolidated net investment income in 2020 as compared with the 2019. In addition, refer to note 2 of notes to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the Company’s net investment income allocation methodology. Other Revenues Other revenues in all years presented included installment premium charges. Installment premium charges in 2020 were lower than in 2019, primarily attributable to the impact of billing relief actions offered to customers as a result of COVID-19. 74 Claims and Expenses Claims and Claim Adjustment Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2020 were $6.86 billion, $221 million or 3% lower than in 2019, primarily reflecting the impacts of (i) lower losses in the automobile product line due to a decrease in miles driven attributable to COVID-19 and related economic conditions, (ii) higher net favorable prior year reserve development and (iii) lower non-catastrophe weather-related losses in the homeowners and other product line, partially offset by (iv) higher catastrophe losses, (v) higher business volumes and (vi) loss cost trends. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2020 primarily resulted from subrogation recoveries related to wildfires in California in 2017 and 2018. Factors contributing to net favorable prior year reserve development during the years ended December 31, 2020,  2019 and 2018 are discussed in more detail in note 8 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. Amortization of Deferred Acquisition Costs Amortization of deferred acquisition costs in 2020 was $1.74 billion, $116 million or 7% higher than in 2019, generally consistent with the increase in earned premiums before the impact of premium refunds referred to above. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses in 2020 were $1.31 billion, $94 million or 8% higher than in 2019.  The increase in 2020 included higher contingent commissions and an increased allowance for expected credit losses on premiums receivable, in each case primarily due to the impact of COVID-19 and related economic conditions, as well as the impact of higher business volumes. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense in 2020 was $308 million, $113 million or 58% higher than in 2019, primarily reflecting the impact of the $484 million increase in income before income taxes in 2020. Combined Ratio The combined ratio of 89.7% in 2020 was 4.5 points lower than the combined ratio of 94.2% in 2019.  The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 62.8% in 2020 was 5.2 points lower than the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 68.0% in 2019.  The underwriting expense ratio of 26.9% in 2020 was 0.7 points higher than the underwriting expense ratio of 26.2% in 2019. Catastrophe losses accounted for 8.8 points and 4.0 points of the combined ratio in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2020 and 2019 provided 4.1 points and 1.3 points of benefit, respectively, to the combined ratio. The underlying combined ratio in 2020 was 6.5 points lower than the 2019 ratio on the same basis, primarily reflecting the impacts of lower losses in the automobile product line due to a decrease in miles driven attributable to COVID-19 and related economic conditions (net of premium refunds provided to personal automobile customers) and lower non-catastrophe weather-related losses in the homeowners and other product line. 75 Written Premiums Personal Insurance’s gross and net written premiums were as follows: Gross and net written premiums in the segment's Domestic Agency Automobile and Direct-to-Consumer product lines, as well as in the segment's International operations, were negatively impacted by premium refunds provided to personal automobile customers in response to COVID-19 and related economic conditions. Domestic Agency Written Premiums Personal Insurance’s domestic Agency business comprises business written through agents, brokers and other intermediaries. Domestic Agency gross and net written premiums in 2020 both increased by 6% over 2019. Domestic Agency Automobile net written premiums of $5.08 billion in 2020 were 1% lower than in 2019.  Retention rates remained strong in 2020.  Renewal premium changes in 2020 remained positive but were lower than in 2019.  New business premiums in 2020 increased over 2019. Domestic Agency Homeowners and Other net written premiums of $5.19 billion in 2020 were 14% higher than in 2019.  Retention rates remained strong in 2020.  Renewal premium changes in 2020 remained positive and were higher than in 2019.  New business premiums in 2020 increased over 2019. For its domestic Agency business, Personal Insurance had approximately 8.0 million and 7.5 million active policies at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. 76 Direct-to-Consumer and International Written Premiums Direct-to-Consumer net written premiums in 2020 were 5% higher than in 2019, primarily driven by increases in the homeowners and other product line. International net written premiums in 2020 were 8% lower than in 2019, primarily driven by declines in the automobile product line. For its Direct-to-Consumer and International business, Personal Insurance had approximately 841,000 and 869,000 active policies at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Interest Expense and Other The Income (loss) for Interest Expense and Other in 2020 was $6 million lower than in 2019. Pre-tax interest expense in 2020 and 2019 was $339 million and $344 million, respectively.  After-tax interest expense in 2020 and 2019 was $268 million and $272 million, respectively. ASBESTOS CLAIMS AND LITIGATION The Company believes that the property and casualty insurance industry has suffered from court decisions and other trends that have expanded insurance coverage for asbestos claims far beyond the original intent of insurers and policyholders. The Company has received and continues to receive a significant number of asbestos claims.  Factors underlying these claim filings include continued intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants and the focus by plaintiffs on defendants, such as manufacturers of talcum powder, who were not traditionally primary targets of asbestos litigation.  The focus on these defendants is primarily the result of the number of traditional asbestos defendants who have sought bankruptcy protection in previous years.  The bankruptcy of many traditional defendants has also caused increased settlement demands against those policyholders who are not in bankruptcy but remain in the tort system. Currently, in many jurisdictions, those who allege very serious injury and who can present credible medical evidence of their injuries are receiving priority trial settings in the courts, while those who have not shown any credible disease manifestation are having their hearing dates delayed or placed on an inactive docket.  Prioritizing claims involving credible evidence of injuries, along with the focus on defendants who were not traditionally primary targets of asbestos litigation, contributes to the claims and claim adjustment expense payment patterns experienced by the Company.  The Company’s asbestos-related claims and claim adjustment expense experience also has been impacted by the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or through the insolvency of other participating insurers. The Company continues to be involved in disputes, including litigation, with a number of policyholders, some of whom are in bankruptcy, over coverage for asbestos-related claims. Many coverage disputes with policyholders are only resolved through settlement agreements. Because many policyholders make exaggerated demands, it is difficult to predict the outcome of settlement negotiations. Settlements involving bankrupt policyholders may include extensive releases which are favorable to the Company, but which could result in settlements for larger amounts than originally anticipated. Although the Company has seen a reduction in the overall risk associated with these disputes, it remains difficult to predict the ultimate cost of these claims.  As in the past, the Company will continue to pursue settlement opportunities. In addition to claims against policyholders, proceedings have been launched directly against insurers, including the Company, by individuals challenging insurers’ conduct with respect to the handling of past asbestos claims and by individuals seeking damages arising from alleged asbestos-related bodily injuries.   It is possible that other direct actions against insurers, including the Company, could be filed in the future.   It is difficult to predict the outcome of these proceedings, including whether the plaintiffs would be able to sustain these actions against insurers based on novel legal theories of liability. The Company believes it has meritorious defenses to any such claims and has received favorable rulings in certain jurisdictions. Because each policyholder presents different liability and coverage issues, the Company generally reviews the exposure presented by each policyholder with open claims at least annually.  Among the factors the Company may consider in the course of this review are: available insurance coverage, including the role of any umbrella or excess insurance the Company has issued to the policyholder; limits and deductibles; an analysis of the policyholder’s potential liability; the jurisdictions involved; past and anticipated future claim activity and loss development on pending claims; past settlement values of similar claims; allocated claim adjustment expense; the potential role of other insurance; the role, if any, of non-asbestos claims or potential non-asbestos 77 claims in any resolution process; and applicable coverage defenses or determinations, if any, including the determination as to whether or not an asbestos claim is a products/completed operation claim subject to an aggregate limit and the available coverage, if any, for that claim. The Company's net asbestos reserves at December 31, 2020 and 2019 were $1.34 billion and $1.28 billion, respectively, and include case reserves, IBNR reserves and reserves for the costs of defending asbestos-related coverage litigation. IBNR reserves include amounts for new claims and adverse development on existing policyholders, as well as reserves for claims from policyholders reporting asbestos claims for the first time and for policyholders for which there is, or may be, litigation. Asbestos reserves also include amounts related to certain policyholders with whom the Company has entered into permanent settlement agreements, which are based on the expected payout for each policyholder under the applicable agreement.  Additionally, a portion of the asbestos reserves relates to assumed reinsurance contracts primarily consisting of reinsurance of excess coverage, including various pool participations. The Company conducts an annual review of domestic policyholders with open asbestos claims. Policyholders are identified for this review based upon, among other factors: a combination of past payments and current case reserves in excess of a specified threshold (currently $100,000), perceived level of exposure, number of reported claims, products/completed operations and potential “non-product” exposures, size of policyholder and geographic distribution of products or services sold by the policyholder. In the third quarter of 2020, the Company completed its annual in-depth asbestos claim review, including a review of policyholders with open claims and litigation cases for potential product and "non-product" liability, and noted the continuation of the following trends: • a high level of litigation activity in certain jurisdictions involving individuals alleging serious asbestos-related illness, primarily involving mesothelioma claims; • while overall payment patterns have been generally stable, there has been an increase in severity for certain policyholders due to the high level of litigation activity; and • a moderate level of asbestos-related bankruptcy activity. The number of policyholders with open asbestos claims declined slightly while gross asbestos-related payments increased slightly, in each case when compared to 2019.   Payments on behalf of these policyholders continue to be influenced by a high level of litigation activity in a limited number of jurisdictions where individuals alleging serious asbestos-related injury, primarily mesothelioma, continue to target defendants who were not traditionally primary targets of asbestos litigation. The Company’s quarterly asbestos reserve reviews include an analysis of exposure and claim payment patterns by policyholder, as well as recent settlements, policyholder bankruptcies, judicial rulings and legislative actions.  The Company also analyzes developing payment patterns among policyholders and the assumed reinsurance component of reserves, as well as projected reinsurance billings and recoveries. In addition, the Company reviews its historical gross and net loss and expense paid experience, year-by-year, to assess any emerging trends, fluctuations, or characteristics suggested by the aggregate paid activity.  Conventional actuarial methods are not utilized to establish asbestos reserves, and the Company’s evaluations have not resulted in a reliable method to determine a meaningful average asbestos defense or indemnity payment. The completion of these reviews and analyses in 2020, 2019 and 2018 resulted in $295 million, $220 million and $225 million increases, respectively, to the Company’s net asbestos reserves.  In each year, the reserve increases were primarily driven by increases in the Company’s estimate of projected settlement and defense costs related to a broad number of policyholders.  The increase in the estimate of projected settlement and defense costs primarily resulted from payment trends that continue to be higher than previously anticipated due to the continued high level of mesothelioma claim filings and the impact of the current litigation environment surrounding those claims discussed above.  Over the past decade, the property and casualty insurance industry, including the Company, has experienced net unfavorable prior year reserve development with regard to asbestos reserves, but the Company believes that over that period there has been a reduction in the volatility associated with the Company’s overall asbestos exposure as the overall asbestos environment has evolved from one dominated by exposure to significant litigation risks, particularly coverage disputes relating to policyholders in bankruptcy who were asserting that their claims were not subject to the aggregate limits contained in their policies, to an environment primarily driven by a frequency of litigation related to individuals with mesothelioma. The Company’s overall view of the current underlying asbestos environment is essentially unchanged from recent periods, and there remains a high degree of uncertainty with respect to future exposure to asbestos claims. 78 Net asbestos paid loss and loss expenses in 2020, 2019 and 2018 were $237 million, $224 million and $225 million, respectively.  Approximately 1%, 4% and 9% of total net paid losses in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, related to policyholders with whom the Company had entered into settlement agreements limiting the Company’s liability. The following table displays activity for asbestos losses and loss expenses and reserves: ENVIRONMENTAL CLAIMS AND LITIGATION The Company has received and continues to receive claims from policyholders who allege that they are liable for injury or damage arising out of their alleged disposition of toxic substances, frequently under policies issued prior to the mid-1980s.   These claims are mainly brought pursuant to various state or federal statutes that require a liable party to undertake or pay for environmental remediation.  For example, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) enables private parties as well as federal and state governments to take action with respect to releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances. This federal statute permits the recovery of response costs from some liable parties and may require liable parties to undertake their own remedial action. Liability under these statutes may be joint and several with other responsible parties. The Company has also been, and continues to be, involved in litigation involving insurance coverage issues pertaining to environmental claims.  The Company believes that some court decisions pertaining to environmental claims have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than the original intent of the insurers and policyholders. For more information regarding environmental claims and litigation, see note 8 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. In 2020, 2019 and 2018, the Company increased its net environmental reserves by $54 million, $76 million and $55 million, respectively.  Net environmental paid loss and loss expenses in 2020, 2019 and 2018 were $69 million, $90 million and $80 million, respectively.  Net environmental reserves were $307 million, $321 million and $334 million at December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. UNCERTAINTY REGARDING ADEQUACY OF ASBESTOS AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESERVES As a result of the processes and procedures discussed above, management believes that the reserves carried for asbestos and environmental claims are appropriately established based upon known facts, current law and management’s judgment. However, the uncertainties surrounding the final resolution of these claims continue, and it is difficult to determine the ultimate 79 exposure for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. As a result, these reserves are subject to revision as new information becomes available and as claims develop. The continuing uncertainties include, without limitation: • the risks and lack of predictability inherent in complex litigation; • a further increase in the cost to resolve, and/or the number of, asbestos and environmental claims beyond that which is anticipated; • the emergence of a greater number of asbestos claims than anticipated as a result of extended life expectancies resulting from medical advances and lifestyle improvements; • the role of any umbrella or excess policies we have issued; • the resolution or adjudication of disputes concerning coverage for asbestos and environmental claims in a manner inconsistent with our previous assessment of these disputes; • the number and outcome of direct actions against us; • future developments pertaining to our ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims; • any impact on asbestos defendants we insure due to the bankruptcy of other asbestos defendants; • the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or through the insolvency of other participating insurers; and • uncertainties arising from the insolvency or bankruptcy of policyholders. Changes in the legal, regulatory and legislative environment may impact the future resolution of asbestos and environmental claims and result in adverse loss reserve development.  The emergence of a greater number of asbestos or environmental claims beyond that which is anticipated may result in adverse loss reserve development.  Changes in applicable legislation and future court and regulatory decisions and interpretations, including the outcome of legal challenges to legislative and/or judicial reforms establishing medical criteria for the pursuit of asbestos claims, could affect the settlement of asbestos and environmental claims.  It is also difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of complex coverage disputes until settlement negotiations near completion and significant legal questions are resolved or, failing settlement, until the dispute is adjudicated. This is particularly the case with policyholders in bankruptcy where negotiations often involve a large number of claimants and other parties and require court approval to be effective. As part of its continuing analysis of asbestos and environmental reserves, the Company continues to study the implications of these and other developments. Because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the Company’s current reserves.  In addition, the Company’s estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change.  These additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could result in income statement charges that could be material to the Company’s operating results in future periods. INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO The Company’s invested assets at December 31, 2020 were $84.42 billion, of which 94% was invested in fixed maturity and short-term investments, 1% in equity securities, 1% in real estate investments and 4% in other investments.  Because the primary purpose of the investment portfolio is to fund future claims payments, the Company employs a thoughtful investment philosophy that focuses on appropriate risk-adjusted returns.  A significant majority of funds available for investment are deployed in a widely diversified portfolio of high quality, liquid, taxable U.S. government, tax-exempt and taxable U.S. municipal and taxable corporate and U.S. agency mortgage-backed bonds. The carrying value of the Company’s fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2020 was $74.00 billion.  The Company closely monitors the duration of its fixed maturity investments, and investment purchases and sales are executed with the objective of having adequate funds available to satisfy the Company’s insurance and debt obligations.  The weighted average credit quality of the Company’s fixed maturity portfolio, both including and excluding U.S. Treasury securities, was “Aa2” at both December 31, 2020 and 2019.  Below investment grade securities represented 1.8% and 2.1% of the total fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.  The weighted average effective duration of fixed maturities and short-term securities was 3.8 (4.0 excluding short-term securities) at December 31, 2020 and 4.0 (4.3 excluding short-term securities) at December 31, 2019. 80 The carrying values of investments in fixed maturities classified as available for sale at December 31, 2020 and 2019 were as follows: ___________________________________________ (1) Rated using external rating agencies or by the Company when a public rating does not exist. (2) Sovereign corporate securities include corporate securities that are backed by a government and include sovereign banks and securities issued under the Federal Ship Financing Programs. (3) Included in commercial mortgage-backed securities and project loans at December 31, 2020 and 2019 were $392 million and $557 million of securities guaranteed by the U.S. government, respectively, and $0 million and $2 million of securities guaranteed by government-sponsored enterprises at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. 81 The following table sets forth the Company’s fixed maturity investment portfolio rated using external ratings agencies or by the Company when a public rating does not exist: Obligations of States, Municipalities and Political Subdivisions The Company’s fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2020 and 2019 included $36.36 billion and $29.92 billion, respectively, of securities which are obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio).  The municipal bond portfolio is diversified across the United States, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico and includes general obligation and revenue bonds issued by states, cities, counties, school districts and similar issuers.  Included in the municipal bond portfolio at December 31, 2020 and 2019 were $3.54 billion and $2.06 billion, respectively, of pre-refunded bonds, which are bonds for which states or municipalities have established irrevocable trusts, almost exclusively comprised of U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government and government agencies and authorities.  These trusts were created to fund the payment of principal and interest due under the bonds. The irrevocable trusts are verified as to their sufficiency by an independent verification agent of the underwriter, issuer or trustee.  All of the Company’s holdings of securities issued by Puerto Rico and related entities have either been pre-refunded and therefore are defeased by U.S. Treasury securities or have FHA guarantees subject to federal appropriation. 82 The following table shows the geographic distribution of the $32.82 billion of municipal bonds at December 31, 2020 that were not pre-refunded: ___________________________________________ (1) Rated using external rating agencies or by the Company when a public rating does not exist.  Ratings shown are the higher of the rating of the underlying issuer or the insurer in the case of securities enhanced by third-party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of issuer default. (2) No other single state accounted for 2.5% or more of the total non-pre-refunded municipal bonds. 83 The following table displays the funding sources for the $12.72 billion of municipal bonds identified as revenue bonds in the foregoing table at December 31, 2020: ___________________________________________ (1) Rated using external rating agencies or by the Company when a public rating does not exist. Ratings shown are the higher of the rating of the underlying issuer or the insurer in the case of securities enhanced by third-party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of issuer default. The Company bases its investment decision on the underlying credit characteristics of the municipal security.  The weighted average credit rating of the municipal bond portfolio was “Aaa/Aa1” at December 31, 2020. Debt Securities Issued by Foreign Governments The following table shows the geographic distribution of the Company’s long-term fixed maturity investments in debt securities issued by foreign governments at December 31, 2020: ___________________________________________ (1) Rated using external rating agencies or by the Company when a public rating does not exist. (2)    No other country accounted for 2.5% or more of total debt securities issued by foreign governments. The following table shows the Company’s Eurozone exposure at December 31, 2020 to all debt securities issued by foreign governments, financial companies, sovereign corporations (including sovereign banks) whose securities are backed by the respective country’s government and all other corporate securities (comprised of industrial corporations and utility companies) which could be affected if economic conditions deteriorated due to a prolonged recession: 84 ___________________________________________ (1) Rated using external rating agencies or by the Company when a public rating does not exist.  The table includes $1.09 billion of short-term securities which have high ratings issued by external rating agencies for short-term issuances.  For purposes of this table, the short-term securities, which are rated “A-1+” and/or “P-1,” are included as “Aaa” rated securities. In addition to fixed maturities noted in the foregoing table, the Company has exposure totaling $147 million to private equity limited partnerships and real estate partnerships (both of which are included in other investments in the Company’s consolidated balance sheet) whose primary investing focus is across Europe.  The Company has unfunded commitments totaling $121 million to these partnerships.  The Company has no non-redeemable preferred stock issued by companies in the Eurozone. Mortgage-Backed Securities, Collateralized Mortgage Obligations and Pass-Through Securities The Company’s fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2020 and 2019 included $2.36 billion and $3.28 billion, respectively, of residential mortgage-backed securities, including pass-through-securities and collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs), all of which are subject to prepayment risk (either shortening or lengthening of duration).  While prepayment risk for securities and its effect on income cannot be fully controlled, particularly when interest rates move dramatically, the Company’s investment strategy generally favors securities that reduce this risk within expected interest rate ranges.  The Company makes investments in residential CMOs that are either guaranteed by GNMA, FNMA or FHLMC, or if not guaranteed, are senior or super-senior positions within their respective securitizations.  Both guaranteed and non-guaranteed residential CMOs allocate the distribution of payments from the underlying mortgages among different classes of bondholders.  In addition, non-guaranteed residential CMOs provide structures that allocate the impact of credit losses to different classes of bondholders.  Senior and super-senior CMOs are protected, to varying degrees, from credit losses as those losses are initially allocated to subordinated bondholders.  The Company’s investment strategy is to purchase CMO tranches that are expected to offer the most favorable return given the Company’s assessment of associated risks.  The Company does not purchase residual interests in CMOs.  For more information regarding the Company’s investments in residential mortgage-backed securities, see note 3 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. 85 Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities and Project Loans At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company held commercial mortgage-backed securities (including FHA project loans) of $1.42 billion and $1.51 billion, respectively.  For more information regarding the Company’s investments in commercial mortgage-backed securities, see note 3 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. Equity Securities, Real Estate and Short-Term Investments See note 1 of notes to the consolidated financial statements for further information about these invested asset classes. Other Investments The Company also invests in private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds and real estate partnerships.  Also included in other investments are non-public common and preferred equities and derivatives.  These asset classes have historically provided a higher return than fixed maturities but are subject to more volatility.  At  December 31, 2020 and 2019, the carrying value of the Company's other investments was $3.43 billion and $3.42 billion, respectively.  The Company has unfunded commitments to private equity limited partnerships, real estate partnerships and others in which it invests.  These commitments totaled $1.72 billion and $1.66 billion at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.  It is the opinion of the Company’s management that the Company has adequate liquidity to meet these commitments. Securities Lending The Company has, from time to time, engaged in securities lending activities from which it generates net investment income by lending certain of its investments to other institutions for short periods of time.  At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company had $139 million and $404 million of securities on loan, respectively, as part of a tri-party lending agreement. The average monthly balance of securities on loan during 2020 and 2019 was $254 million and $368 million, respectively.  Borrowers of these securities provide collateral equal to at least 102% of the market value of the loaned securities plus accrued interest.  The Company did not incur any investment losses in its securities lending program for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. Lloyd’s Trust Deposits The Company meets its capital requirements to support its underwriting at Lloyd’s using a combination of the share capital and retained earnings of the Company's subsidiaries participating in Lloyd's, trust deposits and uncollateralized letters of credit.  Securities with a fair value of approximately $119 million and $173 million held by a wholly-owned subsidiary at  December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and $35 million and $34 million held by TRV at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, were pledged into Lloyd’s trust accounts to provide a portion of the Lloyd’s capital requirements.  For more information regarding the Company’s utilization of uncollateralized letters of credit, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” herein. Net Unrealized Investment Gains (Losses) The net unrealized investment gains (losses) that were included in shareholders' equity were as follows: 86 Net unrealized investment gains included in shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2020 increased by $1.83 billion over December 31, 2019, primarily due to a decline in interest rates during 2020.  Equity securities, which include public common and non-redeemable preferred stocks, are reported at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income. At December 31, 2020, the amount of gross unrealized losses for all fixed maturity investments reported at fair value for which fair value was less than 80% of amortized cost was not significant. For fixed maturity investments where fair value is less than the carrying value and the Company did not reach a decision to impair, the Company continues to have the intent and ability to hold such investments to a projected recovery in value, which may not be until maturity. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, below investment grade securities comprised 1.8% and 2.1%, respectively, of the fair value of the Company’s fixed maturity investment portfolio. Included in below investment grade securities at December 31, 2020 were securities in an unrealized loss position that, in the aggregate, had an amortized cost of $199 million and a fair value of $192 million, resulting in a net pre-tax unrealized investment loss of $7 million. These securities in an unrealized loss position represented less than 1% of both the amortized cost and fair value of the fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2020 and accounted for approximately 64% of the total gross pre-tax unrealized investment loss in the fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2020. Impairment Charges Impairment charges included in net realized investment gains in the consolidated statement of income were $55 million and $4 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The total in 2020 included a $40 million other-than-temporary impairment of the carrying value of an equity method investment included in other investments.  See note 3 of notes to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Purchases and Sales of Investment Securities Purchases and sales of investments are based on cash requirements, the characteristics of the insurance liabilities and current market conditions. The Company identifies investments to be sold to achieve its primary investment goals of assuring the Company’s ability to meet policyholder obligations as well as to optimize investment returns, given these obligations. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company incurred pre-tax realized losses of $3 million on the sale of fixed maturity investments having a fair value of $97 million. CATASTROPHE MODELING The Company uses various analyses and methods, including proprietary and third-party computer modeling processes, to make underwriting and reinsurance decisions designed to manage its exposure to catastrophic events.  There are no industry-standard methodologies or assumptions for projecting catastrophe exposure.  Accordingly, catastrophe estimates provided by different insurers may not be comparable. The Company actively monitors and evaluates changes in third-party models and, when necessary, calibrates the catastrophe risk model estimates delivered via its own proprietary modeling processes.  The Company considers historical loss experience, recent events, underwriting practices, market share analyses, external scientific analysis and various other factors, including non-modeled losses, to refine its proprietary view of catastrophe risk.  These proprietary models are updated regularly as new information and techniques emerge. The tables below set forth the probabilities that estimated losses, comprising claims and allocated claim adjustment expenses (but excluding unallocated claim adjustment expenses), from a single event occurring in a one-year timeframe will equal or exceed the indicated loss amounts (expressed in dollars, net of tax, and as a percentage of the Company’s common equity), based on the proprietary and third-party computer models utilized by the Company at  December 31, 2020.  For example, on the basis described below the tables, the Company estimates that there is a one percent chance that the Company’s loss from a single U.S. and Canadian hurricane in a one-year timeframe would equal or exceed $1.7 billion, or 7% of the Company’s common equity at  December 31, 2020. 87 ___________________________________________ (1) An event that has, for example, a 2% likelihood of exceedance is sometimes described as a “1-in-50 year event.”  As noted above, however, the probabilities in the table represent the likelihood of losses from a single event equaling or exceeding the indicated threshold loss amount in a one-year timeframe, not over a multi-year timeframe.  Also, because the probabilities relate to a single event, the probabilities do not address the likelihood of more than one event occurring in a particular period, and, therefore, the amounts do not address potential aggregate catastrophe losses occurring in a one-year timeframe. (2) The percentage of common equity is calculated by dividing (a) indicated loss amounts in dollars by (b) total common equity excluding net unrealized investment gains and losses, net of taxes, included in shareholders’ equity.  Net unrealized investment gains and losses can be significantly impacted by both discretionary and other economic factors and are not necessarily indicative of operating trends.  Accordingly, the Company’s management uses the percentage of common equity calculated on this basis as a metric to evaluate the potential impact of a single hurricane or single earthquake on the Company’s financial position for purposes of making underwriting and reinsurance decisions. The threshold loss amounts in the tables above, which are based on the Company’s in-force portfolio at December 31, 2020 and catastrophe reinsurance program at January 1, 2021, are net of reinsurance, after-tax and exclude unallocated claim adjustment expenses, which historically have been less than 10% of loss estimates.  For further information regarding the Company’s reinsurance, see “Item 1-Business-Reinsurance.”  The amounts for hurricanes reflect U.S. and Canadian exposures and include property exposures, property residual market exposures and an adjustment for certain non-property exposures.  The hurricane loss amounts are based on the Company’s catastrophe risk model estimates and include losses from the hurricane hazards of wind and storm surge.  The amounts for earthquakes reflect U.S. and Canadian property and workers’ compensation exposures.  The Company does not believe that the inclusion of hurricane or earthquake losses arising from other geographical areas or other exposures would materially change the estimated threshold loss amounts. Catastrophe modeling relies upon inputs based on experience, science, engineering and history.  These inputs reflect a significant amount of judgment and are subject to changes which may result in volatility in the modeled output.  Catastrophe modeling output may also fail to account for risks that are outside the range of normal probability or are otherwise unforeseeable.  Catastrophe modeling assumptions include, among others, the portion of purchased reinsurance that is collectible after a catastrophic event, which may prove to be materially incorrect.  Consequently, catastrophe modeling estimates are subject to significant uncertainty.  In the tables above, the uncertainty associated with the estimated threshold loss amounts increases significantly as the likelihood of exceedance decreases.  In other words, in the case of a relatively more remote event (e.g., 1-in-1,000), the estimated threshold loss amount is relatively less reliable. Actual losses from an event could materially exceed the indicated threshold loss amount.  In addition, more than one such event could occur in any period. Moreover, the Company is exposed to the risk of material losses from other than property and workers’ compensation coverages arising out of hurricanes and earthquakes, and it is exposed to catastrophe losses from perils other than hurricanes and earthquakes, such as tornadoes and other windstorms, hail, wildfires, severe winter weather, floods, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions, solar flares and other naturally-occurring events, as well as acts of terrorism and cyber events. 88 In addition, compared to models for hurricanes, models for earthquakes are less reliable due to there being a more limited number of significant historical events to analyze, while models for tornadoes, hail storms wildfires and winter storms are newer and may be less reliable due to the highly random geographic nature and size of these events. Accordingly, these models may be less accurate in predicting risks and estimating losses. Further, changes in climate conditions could cause our underlying modeling data to be less predictive, thus limiting our ability to effectively evaluate and manage catastrophe risk. As compared to natural catastrophes, modeling for man-made catastrophes, such as terrorism and cyber events, is even more difficult and less reliable, and for some events (both natural and man-made), models are either in early stages of development and, therefore, not widely adopted, or are not available. For more information about the Company’s exposure to catastrophe losses, see “Item 1A - Risk Factors - High levels of catastrophe losses, including as a result of factors such as increased concentrations of insured exposures in catastrophe-prone areas, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and/or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance” and “Item 1A-Risk Factors- We may be adversely affected if our pricing and capital models provide materially different indications than actual results.” CHANGING CLIMATE CONDITIONS Severe weather events over the last two decades underscore the unpredictability of future climate trends, and changing climate conditions could add to the frequency and severity of natural disasters and create additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures.  The insurance industry experienced increased catastrophe losses due to a number of potential causal factors, including, in addition to weather/climate variability, more people living in high-risk areas, population growth in areas with weaker enforcement of building codes, urban expansion and an increase in the average size of a house.  For example, hurricane activity has impacted areas further inland than previously experienced by the Company, and demographic changes have resulted in larger populations located in coastal areas which historically have been subject to severe storms and related storm surge, thus expanding the Company’s potential for losses from hurricanes.  Additionally, both the frequency and severity of tornadoes and hail storms in the United States have been more volatile during the last decade.  The frequency and severity of wildfire losses have been elevated in more recent years, due in part to record droughts in western states that some climate studies suggest are likely to increase over time, as well as demographic changes in areas prone to wildfires.  Moreover, the Company’s catastrophe models may be less reliable due to the increased unpredictability in frequency and severity of severe weather events,  emerging trends in climate conditions, inadequate reflection of regulatory changes and the other factors mentioned above.  Accordingly, the Company may be subject to increased losses from catastrophes and other weather-related events. The Company discusses how changing climate conditions may present other issues for its business under “Item 1A - Risk Factors.” and “Outlook.” For example, among other things: • Increasingly unpredictable and severe weather conditions could result in increased frequency and severity of claims under policies issued by the Company.  See “Item 1A—Risk Factors—High levels of catastrophe losses, including as a result of factors such as increased concentrations of insured exposures in catastrophe-prone areas, could materially  and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and/or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance” and “-Outlook-Underwriting Gain/Loss.” • Changing climate conditions could also impact the creditworthiness of issuers of securities in which the Company invests.  For example, water supply adequacy could impact the creditworthiness of bond issuers with significant assets or business activities in the Southwestern United States, and more frequent and/or severe hurricanes could impact the creditworthiness of issuers with significant assets or business activities in the Southeastern United States, among other areas.  See “Item 1A—Risk Factors—Our investment portfolio is subject to credit and interest rate risk, and may suffer reduced or low returns or material realized or unrealized losses.” • Increased regulation adopted in response to potential changes in climate conditions may impact the Company and its customers, including state insurance regulations that could impact the Company’s ability to manage property exposures in areas vulnerable to significant climate driven losses. For example, one state passed legislation that restricted a carrier's ability to cancel or non-renew certain policies within or adjacent to declared state of emergency zip codes.  If the Company is unable to implement risk-based pricing, modify policy terms or reduce exposures to the extent necessary to address rising losses related to catastrophes and smaller scale weather events (should those increased losses occur), its business may be adversely affected.  See “Item 1—Business—U.S. State and Federal Regulation—Regulatory and Legislative Responses to Catastrophes.” In addition, climate change regulation could increase the Company’s customers’ costs of doing business. For example, insureds faced with carbon management regulatory requirements may have less available capital for investment in loss prevention and safety features which 89 may, over time, increase loss exposures. Increased regulation may also result in reduced economic activity, which would decrease the amount of insurable assets and businesses. • The full range of potential liability exposures related to changing climate conditions continues to evolve. For example, from time to time third parties sue our policyholders alleging that they caused or contributed to changing climate conditions.  Through the Company’s Emerging Issues Committee and its Committee on Climate, Energy and the Environment, the Company works with its business units and corporate groups, as appropriate, to identify and try to assess climate change-related liability issues, which are continually evolving and often hard to fully evaluate.  The Company regularly reviews emerging issues, including changing climate conditions, to consider potential changes to its modeling and the use of such modeling, as well as to help determine the need for new underwriting strategies, coverage modifications or new products. See “Item 1A—Risk Factors—The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain, and court decisions or legislative changes that take place after we issue our policies can result in an unexpected increase in the number of claims and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.” REINSURANCE RECOVERABLES The Company reinsures a portion of the risks it underwrites in order to control its exposure to losses.  For additional discussion regarding the Company’s reinsurance coverage, see “Part I—Item 1—Business—Reinsurance.” The following table summarizes the composition of the Company’s reinsurance recoverables: Net reinsurance recoverables at December 31, 2020 increased by $115 million from December 31, 2019, primarily reflecting the impacts of catastrophe losses in 2020, partially offset by a lower level of recoverables from mandatory pools and associations and the $53 million increase in the allowance for estimated uncollectible reinsurance from the cumulative effect of adoption of updated accounting guidance for credit losses at January 1, 2020. The following table presents the Company’s top five reinsurer groups by reinsurance recoverable at December 31, 2020 (in millions).  Also included is the A.M. Best rating of the Company's predominant reinsurer from each such reinsurer group at February 11, 2021: At December 31, 2020, the Company held $1.01 billion of collateral in the form of letters of credit, funds and trust agreements held to fully or partially collateralize certain reinsurance recoverables. Included in net reinsurance recoverables are amounts related to structured settlements, which are annuities purchased from various life insurance companies to settle certain personal physical injury claims, of which workers’ compensation claims comprise a significant portion.  In cases where the Company did not receive a release from the claimant, the amount due from the life insurance company related to the structured settlement is included in the Company’s consolidated balance sheet as a reinsurance recoverable and the related claim cost is included in the liability for claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, as the Company retains the contingent liability to the claimant.  If it is expected that the life insurance company is not able to 90 pay, the Company would recognize an impairment of the related reinsurance recoverable if, and to the extent, the purchased annuities are not covered by state guaranty associations.  In the event that the life insurance company fails to make the required annuity payments, the Company would be required to make such payments.  The following table presents the Company’s top five groups by structured settlements at December 31, 2020 (in millions).  Also included is the A.M. Best rating of the Company’s predominant insurer from each such insurer group at February 11, 2021: ___________________________________________ (1)       On October 23, 2016, Genworth Financial (Genworth) announced that they entered into a definitive agreement under which China Oceanwide Holdings Group Co., Ltd. agreed to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Genworth.  On March 7, 2017, Genworth stockholders adopted the merger agreement. On January 4, 2021, the parties announced that although the merger agreement remains in effect, they have not extended the closing deadline of December 31, 2020, and either party is able to terminate the merger agreement at any time. The Company considers the ratings and related outlook assigned to reinsurance companies and life insurance companies by various independent ratings agencies in assessing the adequacy of its allowance for uncollectible amounts. OUTLOOK The following discussion provides outlook information for certain key drivers of the Company’s results of operations and capital position. The impacts of COVID-19 and related economic conditions on the Company's financial results, which began to affect the Company late in the first quarter of 2020, continue to be highly uncertain and outside the Company’s control.  The scope, duration and magnitude of the direct and indirect effects of COVID-19 continue to evolve in ways that are difficult or impossible to anticipate.  As a result, its impact on the Company’s results in 2020 is not indicative of its impact on the Company’s results in 2021.  For additional information on the risks posed by COVID-19, see “The impact of COVID-19 and related risks could materially affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity” included in “Part I—Item 1A—Risk Factors.” Premiums. The Company’s earned premiums are a function of net written premium volume.  Net written premiums comprise both renewal business and new business and are recognized as earned premium over the term of the underlying policies. When business renews, the amount of net written premiums associated with that business may increase or decrease (renewal premium change) as a result of increases or decreases in rate and/or insured exposures, which the Company considers as a measure of units of exposure (such as the number and value of vehicles or properties insured).  Net written premiums from both renewal and new business, and therefore earned premiums, are impacted by competitive market conditions as well as general economic conditions, which, particularly in the case of Business Insurance, affect audit premium adjustments, policy endorsements and mid-term cancellations.  Net written premiums may also be impacted by the structure of reinsurance programs and related costs, as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates. As a result of COVID-19, economic conditions in the United States and other countries around the world have deteriorated significantly.  The decreased levels of economic activity, together with the related premium refund programs, have negatively impacted premium volumes in 2020. The Company expects this impact will persist into 2021, but the degree of the impact will depend on the extent and duration of the challenging economic circumstances and could be material.  As a result of the impact of the pandemic on the Company’s earned premiums, the Company has experienced, and may continue to experience in the near term, an adverse impact on the underwriting expense ratio. The Company’s retention levels (the amount of expiring premium that renews, before the impact of renewal premium changes) have remained strong by historical standards in recent periods; however, retention levels, particularly in the near term, may be impacted by COVID-19 and related economic conditions.  For example, retention may improve due to lower levels of business being marketed as a result of operational disruptions impacting businesses.  On the other hand, business failures or customers choosing not to renew coverages due to financial distress would result in lapses of policies and lower levels of retention.  In addition, as risk profiles of insureds change, the Company may determine to non-renew certain policies. 91 Property and casualty insurance market conditions are expected to remain competitive during 2021 for new business.  In each of the Company’s business segments, new business generally has less of an impact on underwriting profitability than renewal business, given the volume of new business relative to renewal business.  However, in periods of meaningful increases in new business, despite its positive impact on underwriting gains over time, the impact of higher new business levels may negatively impact the combined ratio for a period of time. In periods of meaningful decreases in new business, despite its negative impact on underwriting gains over time, the impact of lower new business levels may positively impact the combined ratio for a period of time. Underwriting Gain/Loss. The Company’s underwriting gain/loss can be significantly impacted by catastrophe losses and net favorable or unfavorable prior year reserve development, as well as underlying underwriting margins.  Underlying underwriting margins can be impacted by a number of factors, including variability in non-catastrophe weather, large loss and other loss activity, including variability in losses attributable to COVID-19 and related economic conditions; changes in current period loss estimates resulting from prior period loss development; changes in loss trend, including as a result of COVID-19 and related economic conditions; changes in business mix; changes in reinsurance coverages and/or costs; premium adjustments; and variability in expenses and assessments. Catastrophe losses and non-catastrophe weather-related losses are inherently unpredictable from period to period. The Company’s results of operations could be adversely impacted if significant catastrophe and non-catastrophe weather-related losses were to occur. On average for the ten-year period ended December 31, 2020, the Company experienced approximately 44% of its annual catastrophe losses during the second quarter, primarily arising out of severe wind and hail storms, including tornadoes.  Hurricanes, wildfires and winter storms tend to happen at other times of the year and can also have a material impact on the Company's results of operations.  Catastrophe losses incurred in a particular quarter in any given year may differ materially from historical experience.  In addition, most of the Company's reinsurance programs renew on January 1 or July 1 of each year, and, therefore, any changes to the cost or coverage terms of such programs will be effective after such dates. Over much of the past decade, the Company’s results have included significant amounts of net favorable prior year reserve development driven by better than expected loss experience.  However, given the inherent uncertainty in estimating claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, loss experience could develop such that the Company recognizes in future periods higher or lower levels of favorable prior year reserve development, no favorable prior year reserve development or, as was the case in 2019, unfavorable prior year reserve development. In addition, the ongoing review of prior year claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, or other changes in current period circumstances, may result in the Company revising current year loss estimates upward or downward in future periods of the current year. It is possible that changes in economic conditions and steps taken by federal, state and/or local governments and the Federal Reserve in response to COVID-19 could lead to higher or lower inflation than the Company anticipated, which could in turn lead to an increase or decrease in the Company’s loss costs and the need to strengthen or reduce claims and claim adjustment expense reserves.  These impacts of inflation on loss costs and claims and claim adjustment expense reserves could be more pronounced for those lines of business that require a relatively longer period of time to finalize and settle claims for a given accident year and, accordingly, are relatively more inflation sensitive. For a further discussion, see “Part I—Item 1A—Risk Factors—If actual claims exceed our claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, or if changes in the estimated level of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are necessary, including as a result of, among other things, changes in the legal/tort, regulatory and economic environments in which the Company operates, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected.” Economic conditions and therefore the Company’s results of operations may be impacted by a variety of other factors as well, many of which could continue to be exacerbated by COVID-19, such as a recession, financial market turmoil, supply chain disruptions, extraordinary monetary and fiscal policy measures, fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, changes in tariffs or other international trade regulations, the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European Union, the political and regulatory environment, changes to the U.S. Federal budget and further potential changes in tax laws or health care legislation in the United States. Investment Portfolio .  The Company expects to continue to focus its investment strategy on maintaining a high-quality investment portfolio and a relatively short average effective duration.  The weighted average effective duration of fixed maturities and short-term securities was 3.8 (4.0 excluding short-term securities) at December 31, 2020.  From time to time, the Company enters into short positions in U.S. Treasury futures contracts to manage the duration of its fixed maturity portfolio.  At December 31, 2020, the Company had no open U.S. Treasury futures contracts.  The Company continually evaluates its investment alternatives and mix.  Currently, the majority of the Company’s investments are comprised of a widely diversified 92 portfolio of high-quality, liquid, taxable U.S. government, tax-exempt and taxable U.S. municipal and taxable corporate and U.S. agency mortgage-backed bonds. The Company also invests much smaller amounts in equity securities, real estate, and private equity, hedge fund and real estate partnerships, and joint ventures.  These investment classes have the potential for higher returns but also the potential for higher degrees of risk, including less stable rates of return and less liquidity. Approximately 31% of the fixed maturity portfolio is expected to mature over the next three years (including the early redemption of bonds, assuming interest rates (including credit spreads) do not rise significantly by applicable call dates). As a result, the overall yield on and composition of its portfolio could be meaningfully impacted by the types of investments available for reinvestment with the proceeds of maturing bonds. Net investment income is a material contributor to the Company’s results of operations.  Based on the impact of expected lower reinvestment yields on fixed income investments, partially offset by our current expectations for slightly higher levels of fixed income investments, the Company expects that after-tax net investment income from that portfolio will be approximately $420 million to $430 million for each quarter of 2021. This expectation could be impacted by further disruptions in global financial markets associated with the continuing impact of COVID-19. Included in other investments are private equity, hedge fund and real estate partnerships that are accounted for under the equity method of accounting and typically report their financial statement information to the Company one month to three months following the end of the reporting period.  Accordingly, the impact of any volatility in global financial markets on net investment income from these other investments is generally reflected in the Company's financial statements on a quarter lag basis.  Further changes in global financial markets could impact the Company’s net investment income in future periods from its non-fixed income investment portfolio, positively or negatively. The Company had net pre-tax realized investment gains of $2 million in 2020.  Changes in global financial markets due to the continuing impact of COVID-19 could result in net realized investment gains or losses in the Company’s investment portfolio. The Company had a net pre-tax unrealized investment gain of $5.18 billion ($4.07 billion after-tax) in its fixed maturity investment portfolio at  December 31, 2020.  While the Company does not attempt to predict future interest rate movements, a rising interest rate environment would reduce the market value of fixed maturity investments and, therefore, reduce shareholders’ equity, and a declining interest rate environment would have the opposite effects.  Additionally, further disruptions in global financial markets associated with the continuing impact of COVID-19 could also impact the market value of the Company’s investment portfolio. The Company's investment portfolio has benefited from certain tax exemptions (primarily those related to interest from municipal bonds) and certain other tax laws, including, but not limited to, those governing dividends-received deductions and tax credits (such as foreign tax credits). Changes in these laws could adversely impact the value of the Company's investment portfolio.  See "Our businesses are heavily regulated by the states and countries in which we conduct business, including licensing, market conduct and financial supervision, and changes in regulation, including higher tax rates, may reduce our profitability and limit our growth" included in “Part I—Item 1A—Risk Factors.” For further discussion of the Company’s investment portfolio, see “Investment Portfolio.” For a discussion of the risks to the Company’s business during or following a financial market disruption and risks to the Company’s investment portfolio, see the risk factors entitled “During or following a period of financial market disruption or an economic downturn, our business could be materially and adversely affected” and “Our investment portfolio is subject to credit and interest rate risk, and may suffer reduced or low returns or material realized or unrealized losses” included in “Part I—Item 1A—Risk Factors.”  For a discussion of the risks to the Company’s investments from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, see the risk factor entitled “We are subject to additional risks associated with our business outside the United States” included in “Part I—Item 1A—Risk Factors” and see “Part II—Item 7A—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk.” Capital Position. The Company believes it has a strong capital position and, as part of its ongoing efforts to create shareholder value, expects to continue to return capital not needed to support its business operations to its shareholders, subject to the considerations described below, including the impact of COVID-19 and related economic conditions.  The Company expects that, generally over time, the combination of dividends to common shareholders and common share repurchases will likely not exceed net income.  The Company also expects that to the extent that it continues to grow premium volumes, the level of capital to support the Company's financial strength ratings will also increase, and accordingly, the amount of capital returned to shareholders relative to earnings would be somewhat less than it otherwise would have been absent the growth in premium volumes. The timing and actual number of shares to be repurchased in the future will depend on a variety of additional factors, including the Company’s financial position, earnings, share price, catastrophe losses, maintaining capital levels commensurate with the Company’s desired ratings from independent rating agencies, changes in levels of written premiums, funding of the 93 Company’s qualified pension plan, capital requirements of the Company’s operating subsidiaries, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, other investment opportunities (including mergers and acquisitions and related financings), market conditions and other factors. For information regarding the Company’s common share repurchases in 2020, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources.” As a result of the Company’s business outside of the United States, primarily in Canada, the United Kingdom (including Lloyd’s), the Republic of Ireland and in Brazil through a joint venture, the Company’s capital is also subject to the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.  Strengthening of the U.S. dollar in comparison to other currencies could result in a reduction in shareholders’ equity, while a weakening of the U.S. dollar in comparison to other currencies could result in an increase in shareholders' equity.  For additional discussion of the Company’s foreign exchange market risk exposure, see “Part II—Item 7A—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Many of the statements in this “Outlook” section and in “Liquidity and Capital Resources” are forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties that are often difficult to predict and beyond the Company’s control.  Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.  Further, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update them.  See “—Forward Looking Statements.”  For a discussion of potential risks and uncertainties that could impact the Company’s results of operations or financial position, see “Part I—Item 1A—Risk Factors” and “Critical Accounting Estimates.” LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity is a measure of a company’s ability to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the cash requirements of its business operations and to satisfy general corporate purposes when needed. Operating Company Liquidity. The liquidity requirements of the Company’s insurance subsidiaries are met primarily by funds generated from premiums, fees, income received on investments and investment maturities.  Cash provided from these sources is used primarily for claims and claim adjustment expense payments and operating expenses.  The insurance subsidiaries’ liquidity requirements can be impacted by, among other factors, the timing and amount of catastrophe claims, which are inherently unpredictable, as well as the timing and amount of reinsurance recoveries, which may be affected by reinsurer solvency and reinsurance coverage disputes.  Additionally, the variability of asbestos-related claim payments, as well as the volatility of potential judgments and settlements arising out of litigation, may also result in increased liquidity requirements.  It is the opinion of the Company’s management that the insurance subsidiaries’ future liquidity needs will be adequately met from all of the sources described above.  Subject to restrictions imposed by states in which the Company’s insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, the Company’s principal insurance subsidiaries pay dividends to their respective parent companies, which, in turn, pay dividends to the corporate holding (parent) company (TRV).  For further information regarding restrictions on dividends paid by the Company’s insurance subsidiaries, see “Part I—Item 1—Business—Regulation.” Holding Company Liquidity .  TRV’s liquidity requirements primarily include shareholder dividends, debt servicing, common share repurchases and, from time to time, contributions to its qualified domestic pension plan.  At December 31, 2020, TRV held total cash and short-term invested assets in the United States aggregating $1.69 billion and having a weighted average maturity of 45 days.  TRV has established a holding company liquidity target equal to its estimated annual pre-tax interest expense and common shareholder dividends (currently approximately $1.21 billion).    TRV’s holding company liquidity of $1.69 billion at December 31, 2020 exceeded this target, and it is the opinion of the Company’s management that these assets are sufficient to meet TRV’s current liquidity requirements. TRV is not dependent on dividends or other forms of repatriation from its foreign operations to support its liquidity needs.  The undistributed earnings of the Company’s foreign operations are intended to be permanently reinvested in those operations, and such earnings were not material to the Company’s financial position or liquidity at December 31, 2020. TRV has a shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission that expires on June 10, 2022 which permits it to issue securities from time to time.  TRV also has a $1.0 billion line of credit facility with a syndicate of financial institutions that expires on June 4, 2023.  At December 31, 2020, the Company had $100 million of commercial paper outstanding.  TRV is not reliant on its commercial paper program to meet its operating cash flow needs. The Company has no senior notes or junior subordinated debentures maturing until April 2026, at which time $200 million of senior notes will mature. The Company utilized uncollateralized letters of credit issued by major banks with an aggregate limit of approximately $249 million to provide a portion of the capital needed to support its obligations at Lloyd’s at December 31, 2020.  If uncollateralized letters of credit are not available at a reasonable price or at all in the future, the Company can collateralize these letters of credit 94 or may have to seek alternative means of supporting its obligations at Lloyd’s, which could include utilizing holding company funds on hand. Operating Activities Net cash flows provided by operating activities were $6.52 billion and $5.21 billion in 2020 and 2019, respectively.  The increase in cash flows in 2020 primarily reflected the impacts of lower levels of payments for claims and claim adjustment expenses and higher levels of cash received for premiums, partially offset by lower levels of cash received for net investment income. The lower levels of payments for claims and claim adjustment expenses primarily reflected the impacts of (i) COVID-19 and related economic conditions, such as lower loss payments in the automobile product line due to a decrease in miles driven and reduced judicial system and claim settlement activity and (ii) $380 million of subrogation recoveries from PG&E related to the 2017 and 2018 California wildfires received in 2020, partially offset by (iii) payments related to higher catastrophe losses in 2020. The higher levels of cash received for premiums included the adverse impact of premium refunds primarily provided in 2020 to personal automobile customers in response to COVID-19 and related economic conditions.  The decrease in cash received for net investment income included lower cash received from fixed income investments due to the impacts of lower interest rates, partially offset by a higher average level of investments, as well lower cash received on non-fixed income investments related to disruptions in global financial markets due to COVID-19. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $4.89 billion and $2.90 billion in 2020 and 2019, respectively.  The Company’s consolidated total investments at December 31, 2020 increased by $6.54 billion, or 8% over December 31, 2019, primarily reflecting the impact of (i) an increase in net unrealized gains on investments at December 31, 2020 as compared with December 31, 2019, as well as (ii) net cash flows provided by operating activities, partially offset by (iii) net cash used in financing activities. The Company’s investment portfolio is managed to support its insurance operations; accordingly, the portfolio is positioned to meet obligations to policyholders.  As such, the primary goals of the Company’s asset-liability management process are to satisfy the insurance liabilities and maintain sufficient liquidity to cover fluctuations in projected liability cash flows.  Generally, the expected principal and interest payments produced by the Company’s fixed maturity portfolio adequately fund the estimated runoff of the Company’s insurance reserves.  Although this is not an exact cash flow match in each period, the substantial amount by which the market value of the fixed maturity portfolio exceeds the value of the net insurance liabilities, as well as the positive cash flow from newly sold policies and the large amount of high quality liquid bonds, contributes to the Company’s ability to fund claim payments without having to sell illiquid assets or access credit facilities. Financing Activities Net cash flows used in financing activities were $1.42 billion and $2.19 billion in 2020 and 2019, respectively.  The totals in both years primarily reflected dividends paid to shareholders, common share repurchases and the payment of maturing debt, partially offset by the issuance of debt and proceeds from employee stock option exercises.  Common share repurchases in 2020 and 2019 were $672 million and $1.55 billion, respectively.  The lower level of share repurchases in 2020 primarily reflected the uncertainties surrounding the potential impact of COVID-19 and related economic conditions. Debt Transactions . 2020. On April 27, 2020, the Company issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 2.55% senior notes that will mature on April 27, 2050. The net proceeds of the issuance, after the deduction of the underwriting discount and expenses payable by the Company, totaled approximately $490 million. Interest on the senior notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on April 27 and October 27. Prior to October 27, 2049, the senior notes may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the Company’s option, at any time or from time to time, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of any senior notes to be redeemed or (b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest to but excluding October 27, 2049 on any senior notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the then current Treasury rate (as defined in the senior notes), plus 25 basis points. On or after October 27, 2049, the senior notes may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the Company’s option, at any time or from time to time, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of any senior notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date. On November 1, 2020, the Company's $500 million, 3.90% senior notes matured and were fully paid. 95 2019 .  On March 4, 2019, the Company issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 4.10% senior notes that will mature on March 4, 2049.  The net proceeds of the issuance, after the deduction of the underwriting discount and expenses payable by the Company, totaled approximately $492 million.  Interest on the senior notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on March 4 and September 4.  Prior to September 4, 2048, the senior notes may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the Company’s option, at any time or from time to time, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of any senior notes to be redeemed or (b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest to but excluding September 4, 2048 on any senior notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the then current Treasury rate (as defined in the senior notes), plus 20 basis points.  On or after September 4, 2048, the senior notes may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the Company’s option, at any time or from time to time, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of any senior notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date. On June 2, 2019, the Company's $500 million, 5.90% senior notes matured and were fully paid. Dividends. Dividends paid to shareholders were $861 million and $844 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively.  The declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of the Company’s common stock will be at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors and will depend upon many factors, including the Company’s financial position, earnings, capital requirements of the Company’s operating subsidiaries, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors as the Board of Directors deems relevant.  Dividends will be paid by the Company only if declared by its Board of Directors out of funds legally available, subject to any other restrictions that may be applicable to the Company.  On January 21, 2021, the Company announced that its Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.85 per share, payable March 31, 2021 to shareholders of record on March 10, 2021. Share Repurchases. The Company’s Board of Directors has approved common share repurchase authorizations under which repurchases may be made from time to time in the open market, pursuant to pre-set trading plans meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, in private transactions or otherwise.  The authorizations do not have a stated expiration date.   The most recent authorization was approved by the Board of Directors in April 2017 and added $5.0 billion of repurchase capacity to the $709 million capacity remaining at that date.  The Company expects that, generally over time, the combination of dividends to common shareholders and common share repurchases will likely not exceed net income.  The Company also expects that to the extent that it continues to grow premium volumes, the amount of capital returned to shareholders relative to earnings would be somewhat less than it otherwise would have been.  The timing and actual number of shares to be repurchased in the future will depend on a variety of factors, including the Company’s financial position, earnings, share price, catastrophe losses, maintaining capital levels commensurate with the Company’s desired ratings from independent rating agencies, changes in levels of written premiums, funding of the Company’s qualified pension plan, capital requirements of the Company’s operating subsidiaries, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, other investment opportunities (including mergers and acquisitions and related financings), market conditions and other factors.  During 2020, the Company repurchased 4.9 million shares under its share repurchase authorization, for a total of $625 million.  The average cost per share repurchased was $127.17.  Common share repurchases in 2020 were lower than the total of $1.50 billion in 2019, due, in part, to uncertainties related to the impact of COVID-19 and related economic conditions.  At December 31, 2020, the Company had $1.16 billion of capacity remaining under its share repurchase authorization. From the inception of the first authorization on May 2, 2006 through December 31, 2020, the Company has repurchased a cumulative total of 513.0 million shares for a total of $34.84 billion, or an average of $67.91 per share. In 2020 and 2019, the Company acquired 0.3 million shares and 0.4 million shares, respectively, of common stock from employees as treasury stock primarily to cover payroll withholding taxes in connection with the vesting of restricted stock unit awards and performance share awards, and shares used by employees to cover the price of certain stock options that were exercised. Capital Resources Capital resources reflect the overall financial strength of the Company and its ability to borrow funds at competitive rates and raise new capital to meet its needs.  The following table summarizes the components of the Company’s capital structure at December 31, 2020 and 2019: 96 Total capitalization at December 31, 2020 was $35.75 billion, $3.25 billion higher than at December 31, 2019, primarily reflecting the impacts of (i) net income of $2.70 billion, (ii) other comprehensive income of $1.86 billion, primarily reflecting the increase in net unrealized appreciation on investments due to a decline in interest rates during 2020, and (iii) proceeds from the exercise of employee share options of $127 million, partially offset by (iv) shareholder dividends of $864 million and (v) common share repurchases totaling $625 million under the Company’s share repurchase authorization. The following table provides a reconciliation of total capitalization presented in the foregoing table to total capitalization excluding net unrealized gains on investments, net of taxes, included in shareholders' equity: The debt-to-total capital ratio excluding net unrealized gains on investments, net of taxes, included in shareholders’ equity, is calculated by dividing (a) debt by (b) total capitalization excluding net unrealized gains and losses on investments, net of taxes, included in shareholders’ equity.  Net unrealized gains and losses on investments can be significantly impacted by both interest rate movements and other economic factors.  Accordingly, in the opinion of the Company’s management, the debt-to-total capital ratio calculated on this basis provides another useful metric for investors to understand the Company’s financial leverage position.  The Company’s ratio of debt-to-total capital excluding after-tax net unrealized investment gains included in shareholders’ equity of 20.7% at December 31, 2020 was within the Company’s target range of 15% to 25%. Credit Agreement . The Company is a party to a five-year, $1.0 billion revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of financial institutions that expires on June 4, 2023.  Terms of the credit agreement are discussed in more detail in note 9 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. Shelf Registration .  The Company has filed a universal shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission that expires on June 10, 2022 for the potential offering and sale of securities.  The Company may offer these securities from time to time at prices and on other terms to be determined at the time of offering. Share Repurchase Authorization. At December 31, 2020, the Company had $1.16 billion of capacity remaining under its share repurchase authorization approved by the Board of Directors. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes, as of December 31, 2020, the Company’s future payments under contractual obligations and estimated claims and claim-related payments.  The table excludes short-term obligations and includes only liabilities at December 31, 2020 that are expected to be settled in cash. 97 The table below includes the amount and estimated future timing of claims and claim-related payments.  The amounts do not represent the exact liability, but instead represent estimates, generally utilizing actuarial projection techniques, at a given accounting date. These estimates include expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost based on the Company’s assessment of facts and circumstances known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity, frequency, legal theories of liability and other factors. Variables in the reserve estimation process can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, economic inflation or deflation, legal trends and legislative changes. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. Additionally, there may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of the policyholder event and the time it is actually reported to the insurer. The future cash flows related to the items contained in the table below required estimation of both amount (including severity considerations) and timing. Amount and timing are frequently estimated separately. An estimation of both amount and timing of future cash flows related to claims and claim-related payments has unavoidable estimation uncertainty. The contractual obligations at December 31, 2020 were as follows: ___________________________________________ (1) See note 9 of notes to the consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of outstanding indebtedness. Because the amounts reported in the foregoing table include principal and interest, the total long-term debt obligations will not agree with the amounts reported in note 9. (2) Represents agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business to lease office space, equipment and furniture. (3) Includes agreements with vendors to purchase system software administration and maintenance services. (4) Includes commitments to vendors entered into in the ordinary course of business for goods and services including property, plant and equipment, office supplies, archival services, etc. 98 (5) Represents estimated timing for fulfilling unfunded commitments for private equity limited partnerships, real estate partnerships and other, as well as a put/call option entered into by the Company in connection with a business acquisition. (6) The amounts in “Claims and claim adjustment expenses” in the table above represent the estimated timing of future payments for both reported and unreported claims incurred and related claim adjustment expenses, gross of reinsurance recoverables, excluding structured settlements expected to be paid by annuity companies. The Company has entered into reinsurance agreements to manage its exposure to losses and protect its capital as described in note 6 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. In order to qualify for reinsurance accounting, a reinsurance agreement must indemnify the insurer from insurance risk, i.e., the agreement must transfer amount and timing risk.  Since the timing and amount of cash inflows from such reinsurance agreements are directly related to the underlying payment of claims and claim adjustment expenses by the insurer, reinsurance recoverables are recognized in a manner consistent with the liabilities (the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses) relating to the underlying reinsured contracts.  The presence of any feature that can delay timely reimbursement of claims by a reinsurer results in the reinsurance contract being accounted for as a deposit rather than reinsurance.  The assumptions used in estimating the amount and timing of the reinsurance recoverables are consistent with those used in estimating the amount and timing of the related liabilities. The estimated future cash inflows from the Company’s reinsurance contracts that qualify for reinsurance accounting are as follows: The Company manages its business and evaluates its liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expenses on a net of reinsurance basis.  The estimated cash flows on a net of reinsurance basis are as follows: For business underwritten by non-U.S. operations, future cash flows related to reported and unreported claims incurred and related claim adjustment expenses were translated at the spot rate on December 31, 2020. The amounts reported in the table above and in the table of reinsurance recoverables above are presented on a nominal basis and have not been adjusted to reflect the time value of money. Accordingly, the amounts above will differ from the Company’s balance sheet to the extent that the liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses and the related reinsurance recoverables have been discounted in the balance sheet. See note 1 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. (7) Workers’ compensation large deductible policies provide third-party coverage in which the Company typically is responsible for paying the entire loss under such policies and then seeks reimbursement from the insured for the deductible amount. “Claims from large deductible policies” represent the estimated future payment for claims and claim related expenses below the deductible amount, net of the estimated recovery of the deductible. The liability and the related deductible receivable for unpaid claims are presented in the consolidated balance sheet as “contractholder payables” and “contractholder receivables,” respectively. Most deductibles for such policies are paid directly from the policyholder’s escrow, which is periodically replenished by the policyholder. The payment of the loss amounts above the deductible are reported within “Claims and claim adjustment expenses” in the above table. Because the timing of the collection of the deductible (contractholder receivables) occurs shortly after the payment of the deductible to a claimant (contractholder payables), these cash flows offset each other in the table. The estimated timing of the payment of the contractholder payables and the collection of contractholder receivables (net of allowance for expected credit losses) for workers’ compensation policies is presented below: (8) The amounts in “Loss-based assessments” relate to estimated future payments of second-injury fund assessments which would result from payment of current claim liabilities. Second injury funds cover the cost of any additional benefits for aggravation of a pre-existing condition. For loss-based assessments, the cost is shared by the insurance industry and self-insureds, funded through assessments to insurance companies and self-insureds based on losses. Amounts relating to second-injury fund assessments are included in “other liabilities” in the consolidated balance sheet. 99 (9) The amounts in “Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits” represent estimated future nominal payments for reinsurance agreements that are accounted for as deposits. Amounts payable under deposit agreements are included in “other liabilities” in the consolidated balance sheet. (10) The amounts in “Payout from ceded funds withheld” represent estimated payments for losses and return of funds held related to certain reinsurance arrangements whereby the Company holds a portion of the premium due to the reinsurer and is allowed to pay claims from the amounts held. (11) The Company's current liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits from uncertain tax positions are $94 million.  Offsetting these liabilities are deferred tax assets of $37 million associated with the temporary differences that would exist if these positions become realized. The above table does not include an analysis of liabilities reported for structured settlements for which the Company has purchased annuities and remains contingently liable in the event of default by the company issuing the annuity. The Company is not reasonably likely to incur material future payment obligations under such agreements.  In addition, the Company is not currently subject to any minimum funding requirements for its qualified pension plan.  Accordingly, future contributions are not included in the foregoing table. Dividend Availability The Company’s principal insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in the State of Connecticut.  The insurance holding company laws of Connecticut applicable to the Company’s subsidiaries requires notice to, and approval by, the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment of any dividend that, together with other distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of 10% of the insurer’s statutory capital and surplus as of the preceding December 31, or the insurer’s net income for the twelve-month period ending the preceding December 31, in each case determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices and by state regulation. This declaration or payment is further limited by adjusted unassigned surplus, as determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices.  The insurance holding company laws of other states in which the Company’s subsidiaries are domiciled generally contain similar, although in some instances somewhat more restrictive, limitations on the payment of dividends.  A maximum of $2.73 billion is available by the end of 2021 for such dividends to the holding company, TRV, without prior approval of the Connecticut Insurance Department.  The Company may choose to accelerate the timing within 2021 and/or increase the amount of dividends from its insurance subsidiaries in 2021, which could result in certain dividends being subject to approval by the Connecticut Insurance Department. In addition to the regulatory restrictions on the availability of dividends that can be paid by the Company’s U.S. insurance subsidiaries, the maximum amount of dividends that may be paid to the Company’s shareholders is limited, to a lesser degree, by certain covenants contained in its line of credit agreement with a syndicate of financial institutions that require the Company to maintain a minimum consolidated net worth as described in note 9 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. TRV is not dependent on dividends or other forms of repatriation from its foreign operations to support its liquidity needs.  The undistributed earnings of the Company’s foreign operations are intended to be permanently reinvested in those operations, and such earnings were not material to the Company’s financial position or liquidity at December 31, 2020. TRV and its two non-insurance holding company subsidiaries received dividends of $2.00 billion and $2.50 billion from their U.S. insurance subsidiaries in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans The Company sponsors a qualified non-contributory defined benefit pension plan (the qualified domestic pension plan), which covers substantially all U.S. domestic employees and provides benefits primarily under a cash balance formula.  In addition, the Company sponsors a nonqualified defined benefit pension plan which covers certain highly-compensated employees, pension plans for employees of its foreign subsidiaries, and a postretirement health and life insurance benefit plan for employees satisfying certain age and service requirements and for certain retirees. The qualified domestic pension plan is subject to regulations under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 as amended (ERISA), which requires plans to meet minimum standards of funding and requires such plans to subscribe to plan termination insurance through the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC). The Company does not have a minimum funding requirement for the qualified domestic pension plan for 2021 and does not anticipate having a minimum funding requirement in 2022.  The Company has significant discretion in making contributions above those necessary to satisfy the minimum funding requirements. In 2020, 2019 and 2018, there was no minimum funding requirement for the qualified domestic pension plan.  In 2020 and 2019, the Company made no voluntary contributions to the qualified domestic pension 100 plan.  In 2018, the Company voluntarily made contributions totaling $200 million to the qualified domestic pension plan.  The qualified domestic pension plan had a funded status of 107% and 108% at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.  Based on its funded status at December 31, 2020, the Company does not currently anticipate making a voluntary contribution to the qualified domestic pension plan in 2021.  In determining future contributions, the Company will consider the performance of the plan’s investment portfolio, the effects of interest rates on the projected benefit obligation of the plan and the Company’s other capital requirements. The qualified domestic pension plan assets are managed to maximize long-term total return while maintaining an appropriate level of risk. The Company’s overall investment strategy is to achieve a mix of approximately 85% to 90% of investments for long-term growth and 10% to 15% for near-term benefit payments with a diversification of asset types, fund strategies and fund managers. The current target allocations for plan assets are 55% to 65% equity securities and 20% to 40% fixed income securities, with the remainder allocated to short-term securities.  For 2021, the Company plans to apply an expected long-term rate of return on plan assets of 6.50%,  compared with 6.75% in 2020.  The expected rate of return reflects the Company’s current expectations with regard to long-term returns in the capital markets, taking into account the pension plan’s asset allocation targets, the historical performance and current valuation of U.S. and international equities, and the level of long term interest rate and inflation expectations.  The decrease in the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets to 6.50% for 2021 primarily reflects the Company's current expectations with regard to long-term interest rates in the future. For further discussion of the pension and other postretirement benefit plans, see note 15 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. Risk-Based Capital The NAIC has an RBC requirement for most property and casualty insurance companies, which determines minimum capital requirements and is intended to raise the level of protection for policyholder obligations.  The Company’s U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to these NAIC RBC requirements based on laws that have been adopted by individual states.  These requirements subject insurers having policyholders’ surplus less than that required by the RBC calculation to varying degrees of regulatory action, depending on the level of capital inadequacy.  Each of the Company’s U.S. insurance subsidiaries had policyholders’ surplus at December 31, 2020 significantly above the level at which any RBC regulatory action would occur.  Regulators in the jurisdictions in which the Company’s foreign insurance subsidiaries are located require insurance companies to maintain certain levels of capital depending on, among other things, the type and amount of insurance policies written.  Each of the Company’s foreign insurance subsidiaries had capital significantly above their respective regulatory requirements at December 31, 2020. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has entered into certain contingent obligations for guarantees related to selling businesses to third parties, certain investments, certain insurance policy obligations of former insurance subsidiaries and various other indemnifications.  See note 17 of notes to the consolidated financial statements.  The Company does not expect these arrangements will have a material effect on the Company’s financial position, changes in financial position, revenues and expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The Company considers its most significant accounting estimates to be those applied to claims and claim adjustment expense reserves and related reinsurance recoverables, and impairments of investments, goodwill and other intangible assets. 101 Claims and Claim Adjustment Expense Reserves Gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves by product line were as follows: The $2.67 billion increase in gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves since December 31, 2019 primarily reflected the impacts of (i) reduced judicial system and claim settlement activity largely related to COVID-19 and (ii) catastrophe losses in 2020. Asbestos and environmental reserves are included in the General liability, Commercial multi-peril and International and other lines in the foregoing summary table. Asbestos and environmental reserves are discussed separately; see “Asbestos Claims and Litigation,” “Environmental Claims and Litigation” and “Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves.” Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves represent management’s estimate of the ultimate liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses for claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported (IBNR) as of the balance sheet date.  Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent management estimates, primarily utilizing actuarial expertise and projection methods.  These estimates are expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost upon final resolution in the future, based on the Company’s assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity and frequency, expected interpretations of legal theories of liability and other factors. In establishing gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, the Company also considers salvage and subrogation. Estimated recoveries from reinsurance are included in “Reinsurance Recoverables” as an asset on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet.  The claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are reviewed regularly by qualified actuaries employed by the Company. The process of estimating claims and claim adjustment expense reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. These variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, changes in individuals involved in the reserve estimation process, economic inflation, changes in the tort environment, legal trends and legislative changes, among others. The impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. Estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the policyholder event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). Informed judgment is applied throughout the process, including the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses.  The Company continually refines its estimates in a regular ongoing process as historical loss experience develops and additional claims are reported and settled. The Company rigorously attempts to consider all significant facts and circumstances known at the time claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are established. Due to the inherent uncertainty underlying these estimates including, but not limited to, the future settlement environment, final resolution of the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses may be higher or lower than the related claims and claim adjustment expense reserves at the reporting date. Therefore, actual paid losses, as claims are settled in the future, may be materially different than the amount currently recorded-favorable or unfavorable. 102 Because establishment of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates and the application of judgment, currently established claims and claim adjustment expense reserves may change. The Company reflects adjustments to the reserves in the results of operations in the period the estimates are changed. There are also additional risks which impact the estimation of ultimate costs for catastrophes.  For example, the estimation of reserves related to hurricanes, tornadoes, wildfires and other catastrophic events can be affected by the inability of the Company and its insureds to access portions of the impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the legal and regulatory uncertainties, including the interpretation of policy terms and conditions, and the nature of the information available to establish the reserves.  Complex factors include, but are not limited to: determining whether damage was caused by flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; estimating additional living expenses; estimating the impact of demand surge, infrastructure disruption, fraud, the effect of mold damage and business interruption costs; and reinsurance collectibility.  The timing of a catastrophe, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to the Company in estimating reserves for that reporting period.  The estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted as actual claims emerge. A portion of the Company’s gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves (totaling $2.01 billion at December 31, 2020) are for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. While the ongoing review of asbestos and environmental claims and associated liabilities considers the inconsistencies of court decisions as to coverage, plaintiffs’ expanded theories of liability and the risks inherent in complex litigation and other uncertainties, in the opinion of the Company’s management, it is possible that the outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in liability in future periods that differs from current insurance reserves by an amount that could be material to the Company’s future operating results. See the preceding discussion of “Asbestos Claims and Litigation” and “Environmental Claims and Litigation.” General Discussion The process for estimating the liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expenses begins with the collection and analysis of claim data. Data on individual reported claims, both current and historical, including paid amounts and individual claim adjuster estimates, are grouped by common characteristics (components) and evaluated by actuaries in their analyses of ultimate claim liabilities. Such data is occasionally supplemented with external data as available and when appropriate. The process of analyzing reserves for a component is undertaken on a regular basis, generally quarterly, in light of continually updated information. Multiple estimation methods are available for the analysis of ultimate claim liabilities. Each estimation method has its own set of assumption variables and its own advantages and disadvantages, with no single estimation method being better than the others in all situations and no one set of assumption variables being meaningful for all product line components. The relative strengths and weaknesses of the particular estimation methods when applied to a particular group of claims can also change over time. Therefore, the actual choice of estimation method(s) can change with each evaluation. The estimation method(s) chosen are those that are believed to produce the most reliable indication at that particular evaluation date for the claim liabilities being evaluated. In most cases, multiple estimation methods will be valid for the particular facts and circumstances of the claim liabilities being evaluated. This will result in a range of reasonable estimates for any particular claim liability. The Company uses such range analyses to back test whether previously established estimates for reserves by reporting segments are reasonable, given available information. Reported values found to be closer to the endpoints of a range of reasonable estimates are subject to further detailed reviews.  These reviews may substantiate the validity of management’s recorded estimate or lead to a change in the reported estimate. The exact boundary points of these ranges are more qualitative than quantitative in nature, as no clear line of demarcation exists to determine when the set of underlying assumptions for an estimation method switches from being reasonable to unreasonable. As a result, the Company does not believe that the endpoints of these ranges are or would be comparable across companies. In addition, potential interactions among the different estimation assumptions for different product lines make the aggregation of individual ranges a highly judgmental and inexact process. Property-casualty insurance policies are either written on a “claims-made” or on an “occurrence” basis.  Claims-made policies generally cover, subject to requirements in individual policies, claims reported during the policy period.  Policies that are written on an occurrence basis require that the insured demonstrate that a loss occurred in the policy period, even if the insured reports the loss many years later. 103 Most general liability policies are written on an occurrence basis. These policies are subject to substantial loss development over time as facts and circumstances change in the years following the policy issuance. The occurrence form, which accounts for much of the reserve development in asbestos and environmental exposures, is also used to provide coverage for construction general liability, including construction defect. Occurrence-based forms of insurance for general liability exposures require substantial projection of loss trends, which can be influenced by a number of factors, including future inflation, judicial interpretations and societal litigation trends (e.g., size of jury awards and propensity of individuals to pursue litigation), among others. A basic premise in most actuarial analyses is that past patterns demonstrated in the data will repeat themselves in the future, absent a material change in the associated risk factors discussed below. To the extent a material change affecting the ultimate claim liability is known, such change is estimated to the extent possible through an analysis of internal company data and, if available and when appropriate, external data. Such a measurement is specific to the facts and circumstances of the particular claim portfolio and the known change being evaluated.  Significant structural changes to the available data, product mix or organization can materially impact the reserve estimation process.  In addition, the introduction of new products creates a unique risk as historical company data would typically not be available. Informed judgment is applied throughout the reserving process. This includes the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. In addition to actuaries, experts involved with the reserving process also include underwriting and claims personnel and lawyers, as well as other company management. Therefore, management may have to consider varying individual viewpoints as part of its estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. It is also likely that during periods of significant change, such as a merger, consistent application of informed judgment becomes even more complicated and difficult. The variables discussed above in this general discussion have different impacts on reserve estimation uncertainty for a given product line, depending on the length of the claim tail, the reporting lag, the impact of individual claims and the complexity of the claim process for a given product line. Product lines are generally classifiable as either long tail or short tail, based on the average length of time between the event triggering claims under a policy and the final resolution of those claims. Short tail claims are reported and settled quickly, resulting in less estimation variability. The longer the time to final claim resolution, the greater the exposure to estimation risks and hence the greater the estimation uncertainty. A major component of the claim tail is the reporting lag. The reporting lag, which is the time between the event triggering a claim and the reporting of the claim to the insurer, makes estimating IBNR inherently more uncertain. In addition, the greater the reporting lag, the greater the proportion of IBNR to the total claim liability for the product line. Writing new products with material reporting lags can result in adding several years’ worth of IBNR claim exposure before the reporting lag exposure becomes clearly observable, thereby increasing the risk associated with estimating the liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expenses for such products. The most extreme example of claim liabilities with long reporting lags are asbestos claims. For some lines, the impact of large individual claims can be material to the analysis. These lines are generally referred to as being “low frequency/high severity,” while lines without this “large claim” sensitivity are referred to as “high frequency/low severity.”  Estimates of claim liabilities for low frequency/high severity lines can be sensitive to the impact of a small number of potentially large claims.  As a result, the role of judgment is much greater for these reserve estimates. In contrast, for high frequency/low severity lines the impact of individual claims is relatively minor and the range of reasonable reserve estimates is likely narrower and more stable. Claim complexity can also greatly affect the estimation process by impacting the number of assumptions needed to produce the estimate, the potential stability of the underlying data and claim process, and the ability to gain an understanding of the data. Product lines with greater claim complexity, such as for certain surety and construction exposures, have inherently greater estimation uncertainty. Actuaries have to exercise a considerable degree of judgment in the evaluation of all these factors in their analysis of reserves. The human element in the application of actuarial judgment is unavoidable when faced with material uncertainty. Different actuaries may choose different assumptions when faced with such uncertainty, based on their individual backgrounds, professional experiences and areas of focus. Hence, the estimates selected by the various actuaries may differ materially from each other. 104 Lastly, significant structural changes to the available data, product mix or organization can also materially impact the reserve estimation process. Events such as mergers increase the inherent uncertainty of reserve estimates for a period of time, until stable trends re-establish themselves within the new organization. Risk Factors The major causes of material uncertainty (“risk factors”) generally will vary for each product line, as well as for each separately analyzed component of the product line.  In a few cases, such risk factors are explicit assumptions of the estimation method, but in most cases, they are implicit. For example, a method may explicitly assume that a certain percentage of claims will close each year, but will implicitly assume that the legal interpretation of existing contract language will remain unchanged. Actual results will likely vary from expectations for each of these assumptions, causing actual paid losses, as claims are settled in the future, to be different in amount than the reserves being estimated currently. Some risk factors will affect more than one product line. Examples, many of which have been exacerbated by COVID-19, include changes in claim department practices, changes in the tort environment, changes in settlement patterns, regulatory and legislative actions, court actions, timeliness of claim reporting, state mix of claimants, medical utilization and degree of claimant fraud. The extent of the impact of a risk factor will also vary by components within a product line. Individual risk factors are also subject to interactions with other risk factors within product line components. The effect of a particular risk factor on estimates of claim liabilities cannot be isolated in most cases. For example, estimates of potential claim settlements may be impacted by the risk associated with potential court rulings, but the final settlement agreement typically does not delineate how much of the settled amount is due to this and other factors. The evaluation of data is also subject to distortion from extreme events or structural shifts, sometimes in unanticipated ways. For example, the timing of claims payments in one geographic region may be impacted if claim adjusters are temporarily reassigned from that region to help settle catastrophe claims in another region. While some changes in the claim environment are sudden in nature (such as a new court ruling affecting the interpretation of all contracts in that jurisdiction), others are more evolutionary. Evolutionary changes can occur when multiple factors affect final claim values, with the uncertainty surrounding each factor being resolved separately, in stepwise fashion. The final impact is not known until all steps have occurred. Sudden changes generally cause a one-time shift in claim liability estimates, although there may be some lag in reliable quantification of their impact. Evolutionary changes generally cause a series of shifts in claim liability estimates, as each component of the evolutionary change becomes evident and estimable. Actuarial Methods for Analyzing and Estimating Claims and Claim Adjustment Expense Reserves The principal estimation and analysis methods utilized by the Company’s actuaries to evaluate management’s existing estimates for prior accident periods are the paid loss development method, the case incurred development method, the Bornhuetter-Ferguson (BF) method, and average value analysis combined with the reported claim development method.  The BF method is usually utilized for more recent accident periods, with a transition to other methods as the underlying claim data becomes more voluminous and therefore more credible.  These estimation and analysis methods are typically referred to as conventional actuarial methods.  (See note 8 of notes to the consolidated financial statements for an explanation of these methods). While the Company utilizes these conventional actuarial methods to estimate the claims liability for its various businesses, Company actuaries evaluating a particular component for a product line may select from the full range of methods developed within the casualty actuarial profession.  The Company’s actuaries are also continually monitoring developments within the profession for advances in existing techniques or the creation of new techniques that might improve current and future estimates. Some components of a product line may be susceptible to infrequent large claims or not be subject to conventional methods. In such cases, the Company’s actuarial analysis will isolate such components for review.  The reserves excluding such large claims are generally analyzed using the conventional methods described above.  The reserves associated with large claims are then analyzed utilizing various methods, such as: • Estimating the number of large claims and their average values based on historical trends from prior accident periods, adjusted for the current environment and supplemented with actual data for the accident year analyzed to the extent available. 105 • Utilizing individual claim adjuster estimates of the large claims, combined with continual monitoring of the aggregate accuracy of such claim adjuster estimates.  (This monitoring may lead to supplemental adjustments to the aggregate of such claim estimates). • Utilizing historic longer-term average ratios of large claims to small claims, and applying such ratios to the estimated ultimate small claims from conventional analysis. • Ground-up analysis of the underlying exposure (typically used for asbestos and environmental). The results of such methodologies are subjected to various reasonability and diagnostic tests, including implied incurred-loss-to-earned-premium ratios, non-zero claim severity trends and paid-to-incurred loss ratios.  An actual versus expected analysis is also performed comparing actual loss development to expected development embedded within management’s estimate.  Additional analyses may be performed based on the results of these diagnostics, including the investigation of other actuarial methods. The methods described above are generally utilized to evaluate management’s estimate for prior accident periods.  For the initial estimate of the current accident year, however, the available claim data is typically insufficient to produce a reliable indication.  As a result, the initial estimate for an accident year is generally based on an exposure-based method using either the loss ratio projection method or the expected loss method.  The loss ratio projection method, which is typically used for guaranteed-cost business, develops an initial estimate for an accident year by multiplying earned premiums for the accident year by a projected loss ratio.  The projected loss ratio is determined by analyzing prior period experience, and adjusting for loss cost trends, rate level differences, mix of business changes and other known or observed factors influencing the current accident year relative to prior accident years.  The exact number of prior accident years utilized varies by product line component, based on the stability and consistency of the individual accident year estimates.  The expected loss method, which is typically used for loss sensitive business, develops an initial estimate of ultimate claims and claim adjustment expenses for an accident year by analyzing exposures by account. Management’s Estimates At least once per quarter, certain members of Company management meet with the Company’s actuaries to review the latest claims and claim adjustment expense reserve analyses. Based on these analyses, management determines whether its ultimate claim liability estimates should be changed from the prior period. In doing so, it must evaluate whether the new data provided represents credible actionable information or an anomaly that will have no effect on estimated ultimate claim liability. For example, as described above, payments may have decreased in one geographic region due to fewer claim adjusters being available to process claims. The resulting claim payment patterns would be analyzed to determine whether or not the change in payment pattern represents a change in ultimate claim liability. Such an assessment requires considerable judgment. It is frequently not possible to determine whether a change in the data is an anomaly until sometime after the event. Even if a change is determined to be permanent, it is not always possible to reliably determine the extent of the change until sometime later. The overall detailed analyses supporting such an effort can take several months to perform as the underlying causes of the trends observed need to be evaluated, which may require the gathering or assembling of data not previously available. It may also include interviews with experts involved with the underlying processes. As a result, there can be a time lag between the emergence of a change and a determination that the change should be reflected in the Company’s estimated claim liabilities. The final estimate selected by management in a reporting period is based on these various detailed analyses of past data, adjusted to reflect any new actionable information. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors reviews the process by which the Company establishes reserves for the purpose of the Company’s financial statements. Discussion of Product Lines The following section details reserving considerations and common risk factors by product line. There are many additional risk factors that may impact ultimate claim costs. Each risk factor presented will have a different impact on required reserves. Also, risk factors can have offsetting or compounding effects on required reserves. For example, in workers’ compensation, the use of expensive medical procedures that result in medical cost inflation may enable workers to return to work faster, thereby lowering indemnity costs. Thus, in almost all cases, it is impossible to discretely measure the effect of a single risk factor and construct a meaningful sensitivity expectation. In order to provide information on reasonably possible reserving changes by product line, the historical changes in year-end claims and claim adjustment expense reserves over a one-year period are provided for the U.S. product lines.  This information is provided for both the Company and the industry for the nine most recent years, and is based on the most recent publicly 106 available data for the reported line(s) that most closely match the individual product line being discussed.  These changes were calculated, net of reinsurance, from statutory annual statement data found in Schedule P of those statements, and represent the reported reserve development on the beginning-of-the-year claim liabilities divided by the beginning claim liabilities, all accident years combined, excluding non-defense related claim adjustment expense.  Data presented for the Company includes history for the entire Travelers group (U.S. companies only), as required by the statutory reporting instructions promulgated by state regulatory authorities for Schedule P.  Comparable data for non-U.S. companies is not available. General Liability General liability is generally considered a long tail line, as it takes a relatively long period of time to finalize and settle claims from a given accident year. The speed of claim reporting and claim settlement is a function of the characteristics of claims, including specific coverage provided, the jurisdiction and specific policy provisions such as self-insured retentions, among others. There are numerous components underlying the general liability product line. Some of these have relatively moderate payment patterns (with most of the claims for a given accident year closed within five to seven years), while others can have extreme lags in both reporting and payment of claims (e.g., a reporting lag of a decade or more for “construction defect” claims). While the majority of general liability coverages are written on an “occurrence” basis, certain general liability coverages (such as those covering management and professional liability, including cyber coverages) are typically insured on a “claims-made” basis. General liability reserves are generally analyzed as two components: primary and excess/umbrella, with the primary component generally analyzed separately for bodily injury and property damage. Bodily injury liability payments reimburse the claimant for damages pertaining to physical injury as a result of the policyholder’s legal obligation arising from non-intentional acts such as negligence, subject to the insurance policy provisions. In some cases the damages can include future wage loss (which is a function of future earnings power and wage inflation) and future medical treatment costs. Property damage liability payments result from damages to the claimant’s private property arising from the policyholder’s legal obligation for non-intentional acts. In most cases, property damage losses are a function of costs as of the loss date, or soon thereafter. In addition, sizable or unique exposures are reviewed separately.  These exposures include asbestos, environmental, other mass torts, construction defect and large unique accounts that would otherwise distort the analysis. These unique categories often require a very high degree of judgment and require reserve analyses that do not rely on conventional actuarial methods. Defense costs are also a part of the insured costs covered by liability policies and can be significant, sometimes greater than the cost of the actual paid claims. For some products this risk is mitigated by policy language such that the insured portion of defense costs is included in the policy limit available to pay the claim. Such “defense within the limits” policies are most common for “claims-made” products. When defense costs are outside of the policy limits, the full amount of the policy limit is available to pay claims and the amounts paid for defense costs have no contractual limit. This line is typically the largest source of reserve estimate uncertainty in the United States (excluding assumed reinsurance contracts covering the same risk). Major contributors to this reserve estimate uncertainty include the reporting lag (i.e., the length of time between the event triggering coverage and the actual reporting of the claim), the number of parties involved in the underlying tort action, whether the “event” triggering coverage is confined to only one time period or is spread over multiple time periods, the potential dollars involved (in the individual claim actions), whether such claims were reasonably foreseeable and intended to be covered at the time the contracts were written (i.e., coverage dispute potential), and the potential for mass claim actions.  Claims with longer reporting lags result in greater estimation uncertainty.  This is especially true for alleged claims with a latency feature, particularly where courts have ruled that coverage is spread over multiple policy years, hence involving multiple defendants (and their insurers and reinsurers) and multiple policies (thereby increasing the potential dollars involved and the underlying settlement complexity). Claims with long latencies also increase the potential recognition lag (i.e., the lag between writing a type of policy in a certain market and the recognition that such policies have potential mass tort and/or latent claim exposure). The amount of reserve estimate uncertainty also varies significantly by component for the general liability product line. The components in this product line with the longest latency, longest reporting lags, largest potential dollars involved and greatest claim settlement complexity are asbestos and environmental. Components that include latency, reporting lag and/or complexity issues, but to a materially lesser extent than asbestos and environmental, include construction defect and other mass tort actions. Many components of general liability are not subject to material latency or claim complexity risks and hence have materially less uncertainty than the previously mentioned components. In general, components with shorter reporting lags, fewer parties involved in settlement negotiations, only one policy potentially triggered per claim, fewer potential settlement dollars, 107 reasonably foreseeable (and stable) potential hazards/claims and no mass tort potential result in much less reserve estimate uncertainty than components without those characteristics. In addition to the conventional actuarial methods mentioned in the general discussion section, the company utilizes various report year development methods for the construction defect components of this product line.  The Construction Defect report year development analysis is supplemented with projected claim counts and average values for IBNR claim counts.  For components with greater lags in claim reporting, such as excess and umbrella components of this product line, the Company relies more heavily on the BF method than on the paid and case incurred development methods. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required general liability reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: General liability risk factors • Changes in claim handling philosophies • Changes in policy provisions or court interpretation of such provisions • New or expanded theories of liability • Trends in jury awards • Changes in the propensity to sue, in general with specificity to particular issues • Changes in the propensity to litigate rather than settle a claim • Increases in attorney involvement in, or impact on, claims • Changes in statutes of limitations • Changes in the underlying court system • Distortions from losses resulting from large single accounts or single issues • Changes in tort law • Shifts in lawsuit mix between federal and state courts • Changes in claim adjuster processes or reporting which may cause distortions in the data being analyzed • The potential impact of inflation on loss costs • Changes in settlement patterns General liability book of business risk factors • Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements) • Changes in underwriting standards • Product mix (e.g., size of account, industries insured, jurisdiction mix) Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for general liability (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.6% increase (decrease) in claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. Historically, the one-year change in the reserve estimate for this product line, excluding estimated asbestos and environmental amounts, over the last nine years has varied from -5% to 6% (averaging -2%) for the Company, and from -4% to 3% (averaging -1%) for the industry overall.  The Company’s year-to-year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year.  The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one-year changes in reserve estimates for this product line.  General liability reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental) represent approximately 21% of the Company’s total claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. The Company’s change in reserve estimate for this product line related to the last nine accident years, which excludes the impacts of increases in asbestos and environmental reserves, the extension of the statute of limitations for childhood sexual molestation claims and increases in reserves in the Company's runoff operations, was 3% for 2020, 6% for 2019 and -1% for 2018.  The 2020 change primarily reflected higher than expected loss experience in Business Insurance for both primary and excess coverages for accident years 2015 through 2019 and in Bond & Specialty Insurance for accident years 2015, 2018 and 2019.  The 2019 change primarily reflected higher than expected loss experience in Business Insurance for both primary and excess coverages for accident years 2013 through 2018, partially offset by better than expected loss experience for management liability coverages in Bond & Specialty Insurance for accident years 2013 through 2015.  The 2018 change primarily reflected better than expected loss experience for management liability coverages in Bond & Specialty Insurance for accident years 2013 through 2015, partially offset by higher than expected loss experience for both primary and excess coverages in Business Insurance for accident years 2012 through 2017. 108 Commercial Property Commercial property is generally considered a short tail line with a simpler and faster claim reporting and adjustment process than liability coverages, and less uncertainty in the reserve setting process (except for more complex business interruption claims). It is generally viewed as a moderate frequency, low to moderate severity line, except for catastrophes and coverage related to large properties. The claim reporting and settlement process for property coverage claim reserves is generally restricted to the insured and the insurer. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a low estimation risk, except possibly for catastrophes and business interruption claims. Commercial property reserves are typically analyzed in two components, one for catastrophic or other large single events, and another for all other events. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required property reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Commercial property risk factors • Physical concentration of policyholders • Availability and cost of local contractors • For the more severe catastrophic events, “demand surge” inflation, which refers to significant short-term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services • Local building codes • Amount of time to return property to full usage (for business interruption claims) • Frequency of claim re-openings on claims previously closed • Court interpretation of policy provisions (such as occurrence definition, wind versus flooding or communicable disease exclusions) • Lags in reporting claims (e.g., winter damage to summer homes, hidden damage after an earthquake, hail damage to roofs and/or equipment on roofs) • Court or legislative changes to the statute of limitations Commercial property book of business risk factors • Policy provisions mix (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements) • Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves.  As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for property, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. Historically, the one-year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from -22% to -6% (averaging -14%) for the Company, and from -12% to -5% (averaging -7%) for the industry overall.  The Company’s year-to-year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year.  The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one-year changes in reserve estimates for this product line.  Commercial property reserves represent approximately 3% of the Company’s total claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. Since commercial property is considered a short tail coverage, the one year change for commercial property can be more volatile than that for the longer tail product lines.  This is due to the fact that the majority of the reserve for commercial property relates to the most recent accident year, which is subject to the most uncertainty for all product lines.  This recent accident year uncertainty is relevant to commercial property because weather-related events that occur in the second half of the year may not be completely resolved until the following year.  Reserve estimates associated with major catastrophes may take even longer to resolve.  The reserve estimates for this product line are also potentially subject to material changes due to uncertainty in measuring ultimate losses for significant catastrophes such as hurricanes, tornadoes, hail storms and wildfires. The Company’s change in reserve estimate for this product line was -11% for 2020, -6% for 2019 and -11% for 2018.  The 2020 change primarily reflected better than expected loss experience related to both catastrophe and non-catastrophe losses for accident year 2019 and the PG&E subrogation recovery for accident years 2017 and 2018. The 2019 change primarily reflected better than expected loss experience related to both catastrophe and non-catastrophe losses for accident years 2016 through 2018.  The 2018 change primarily reflected better than expected loss experience related to both catastrophe and non-catastrophe losses for accident years 2015 through 2017. 109 Commercial Multi-Peril Commercial multi-peril provides a combination of property and liability coverage typically for small businesses and, therefore, includes both short and long tail coverages. For property coverage, it generally takes a relatively short period of time to close claims, while for the other coverages, generally for the liability coverages, it takes a longer period of time to close claims. The reserving risk for this line is dominated by the liability coverage portion of this product, except occasionally in the event of catastrophic or other large single loss events. The reserving risk for this line differs from that of the general liability product line and the property product line due to the nature of the customer. Commercial multi-peril is generally sold to small- to mid-sized accounts, while the customer profile for general liability and commercial property includes larger customers. See “Commercial property risk factors” and “General liability risk factors,” discussed above, with regard to reserving risk for commercial multi-peril. Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves.  As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for commercial multi-peril (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.2% increase (decrease) in claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. Historically, the one-year change in the reserve estimate for this product line, excluding estimated asbestos and environmental amounts, over the last nine years has varied from -5% to 4% (averaging 0%) for the Company, and from -3% to 1% (averaging -1%) for the industry overall.  The Company’s year-to-year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year.  The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one-year changes in reserve estimates for this product line.  Commercial multi-peril reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental reserves) represent approximately 8% of the Company’s total claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. As discussed above, this line combines general liability and commercial property coverages and it has been impacted in the past by many of the same events as those two lines. The Company’s change in reserve estimate for this product line related to the last nine accident years, which excludes the impacts of increases in asbestos and environmental reserves and increases in reserves in the Company's runoff operations, was 0% for 2020, 4% for 2019 and 1% for 2018. In 2020,  higher than expected loss experience for liability coverages for accident year 2019 was largely offset by the PG&E subrogation recovery for accident years 2017 and 2018.  The 2019 change primarily reflected higher than expected loss experience for liability coverages for accident years 2017 and 2018. The 2018 change primarily reflected higher than expected loss experience for liability coverages for accident year 2017. Commercial Automobile The commercial automobile product line is a mix of property and liability coverages and, therefore, includes both short and long tail coverages. The payments that are made quickly typically pertain to auto physical damage (property) claims and property damage (liability) claims. The payments that take longer to finalize and are more difficult to estimate relate to bodily injury claims. In general, claim reporting lags are generally short, claim complexity is not a major issue, and the line is viewed as high frequency, low to moderate severity. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a moderate estimation risk.  Recently, the Company has seen more of an increase in the rate of attorney involvement than it had anticipated and a lengthening of the claim development pattern.  As a consequence, the Company has experienced a higher level of bodily injury severity than it had anticipated. Commercial automobile reserves are typically analyzed in four components: bodily injury liability; property damage liability; collision claims; and comprehensive claims. These last two components have minimum reserve risk and fast payouts and, accordingly, separate risk factors are not presented. The Company utilizes the conventional actuarial methods mentioned in the general discussion above in estimating claim liabilities for this line.  This is supplemented with detailed custom analyses where needed. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required commercial automobile reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: 110 Bodily injury and property damage liability risk factors • Trends in jury awards • Changes in the underlying court system • Changes in case law • Litigation trends • Increases in attorney involvement in, or impact on, claims • Frequency of claims with payment capped by policy limits • Change in average severity of accidents, or proportion of severe accidents • Changes in auto safety technology • Subrogation opportunities • Changes in claim handling philosophies • Frequency of visits to health providers • Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers • Types of health providers used • Types of medical treatments received • Changes in cost of medical treatments • Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Commercial automobile book of business risk factors • Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) • Changes in mix of insured vehicles (e.g., long haul trucks versus local and smaller vehicles, fleet risks versus non-fleets) • Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves.  As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for commercial automobile, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.3% increase (decrease) in claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. Historically, the one-year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from -2% to 11% (averaging 3%) for the Company, and from -1% to 7% (averaging 4%) for the industry overall.  The Company’s year-to-year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year.  The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one-year changes in reserve estimates for this product line.  Commercial automobile reserves represent approximately 9% of the Company’s total claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. The Company’s change in reserve estimate for this product line was 4% for 2020, 7% for 2019 and 11% for 2018.  The 2020 change primarily reflected higher than expected loss experience for liability coverages for accident year 2019. The 2019 change primarily reflected higher than expected loss experience for liability coverages for accident years 2015 through 2018.  The 2018 change primarily reflected higher than expected loss experience for liability coverages for accident years 2014 through 2017. Workers’ Compensation Workers’ compensation is generally considered a long tail coverage, as it takes a relatively long period of time to finalize claims from a given accident year. While certain payments such as initial medical treatment or temporary wage replacement for the injured worker are made quickly, some other payments are made over the course of several years, such as awards for permanent partial injuries. In addition, some payments can run as long as the injured worker’s life, such as permanent disability benefits and on-going medical care. Despite the possibility of long payment tails, the reporting lags are generally short, payment obligations are generally not complex, and most of the liability can be considered high frequency with moderate severity. The largest reserve risk generally comes from the low frequency, high severity claims providing lifetime coverage for medical expense arising from a worker’s injury, as such claims are subject to greater inflation risk.  Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a somewhat greater than moderate estimation risk. Workers’ compensation reserves are typically analyzed in three components: indemnity losses, medical losses and claim adjustment expenses. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required workers’ compensation reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: 111 Indemnity risk factors • Time required to recover from the injury • Degree of available transitional jobs • Degree of legal involvement • Changes in the interpretations and processes of the administrative bodies that oversee workers’ compensation claims • Future wage inflation for states that index benefits • Changes in the administrative policies of second injury funds Medical risk factors • Changes in the cost of medical treatments (including prescription drugs) and underlying fee schedules (“inflation”) • Frequency of visits to health providers • Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers • Types of health providers used • Type of medical treatments received • Use of preferred provider networks and other medical cost containment practices • Availability of new medical processes and equipment • Changes in the use of pharmaceutical drugs, including drugs for pain management • Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment General workers’ compensation risk factors • Frequency of reopening claims previously closed • Mortality trends of injured workers with lifetime benefits and medical treatment • Changes in statutory benefits, including due to presumption laws • The impact, if any, of potential future changes to government health insurance legislation Workers’ compensation book of business risk factors • Product mix • Injury type mix • Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves.  As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for workers’ compensation, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.3% increase (decrease) in claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. Historically, the one-year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from -4% to 0% (averaging -2%) for the Company, and from -5% to 0% (averaging -2%) for the industry overall.  The Company’s year-to-year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year.  The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one-year changes in reserve estimates for this product line.  Workers’ compensation reserves represent approximately 36% of the Company’s total claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. The Company’s change in reserve estimate for this product line was -3% for 2020, -4% for 2019 and -4% for 2018.  The 2020 change primarily reflected better than expected loss experience for accident years 2018 and prior. The 2019 change primarily reflected better than expected loss experience for accident years 2018 and prior. The 2018 change primarily reflected better than expected loss experience for accident years 2017 and prior. Fidelity and Surety Fidelity is generally considered a short tail coverage. It takes a relatively short period of time to finalize and settle most fidelity claims. The volatility of fidelity reserves is generally related to the type of business of the insured, the size and complexity of the insured’s business operations, amount of policy limit and attachment point of coverage. The uncertainty surrounding reserves for small, commercial insureds is typically less than the uncertainty for large commercial or financial institutions. The high frequency, low severity nature of small commercial fidelity losses provides for stability in loss estimates, whereas the low frequency, high severity nature of losses for large insureds results in a wider range of ultimate loss outcomes. Actuarial techniques that rely on a stable pattern of loss development are generally not applicable to low frequency, high severity claims. Surety has certain components that are generally considered short tail coverages with short reporting lags, although large individual construction and commercial surety contracts can result in a long settlement tail, based on the length and complexity of the construction project(s) or commercial transaction being bonded. The frequency of losses in surety generally has a lagging correlation with economic cycles as the primary cause of surety loss is the inability of an insured to fulfill its contractual 112 obligations.  The Company actively seeks to mitigate this exposure to loss through disciplined risk selection, adherence to underwriting standards and ongoing monitoring of contractor progress in significant construction projects.  The volatility of surety losses is generally related to the type of business performed by the bonded party, the type of bonded obligation, the amount of limit exposed to loss and the amount of assets available to the surety company to mitigate losses, such as unbilled contract funds, collateral, first and third party indemnity, and other security positions of a bonded party's assets. Certain classes of surety claims are very high severity, low frequency in nature. These can include large construction contractors involved with one or multiple large, complex projects as well as certain large commercial surety exposures. Other claim factors affecting reserve variability of surety include litigation related to amounts owed by the bonded party and due to the surety company (e.g., salvage and subrogation efforts), the results of financial restructuring of a bonded party and the availability and cost of replacement contractors, labor and materials. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required fidelity and surety reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Fidelity risk factors • Type of business of insured • Policy limit and attachment points • Third-party claims • Coverage litigation • Complexity of claims • Growth in insureds’ operations Surety risk factors • Economic trends, including the general level of construction activity • Concentration of reserves in a relatively few large claims • Type of business bonded • Type of obligation bonded • Cumulative limits of liability for the bonded party • Assets available to mitigate loss • Defective workmanship/latent defects • Financial strategy of the bonded party • Changes in statutory obligations • Geographic spread of business Fidelity and Surety book of business risk factors • Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, limits, endorsements) • Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves.  As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for fidelity and surety, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.3% increase (decrease) in claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. Historically, the one-year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from -36% to -8% (averaging -19%) for the Company, and from -17% to 0% (averaging -10%) for the industry overall.  The Company’s year-to-year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year.  The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one-year changes in reserve estimates for this product line.  Fidelity and surety reserves represent approximately 1% of the Company’s total claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. In general, developments on single large claims (both adverse and favorable) are a primary source of changes in reserve estimates for this product line. The Company’s change in reserve estimate for this product line was -12% for 2020, -11% for 2019 and -10% for 2018.  The 2020 change primarily reflected better than expected loss experience in the fidelity and surety product line for accident years 2015, 2018 and 2019. The 2019 change primarily reflected better than expected loss experience in the fidelity and surety product line for accident year 2017.  The 2018 change primarily reflected better than expected loss experience in the fidelity and surety product line for accident years 2015 and 2016. 113 Personal Automobile Personal automobile includes both short and long tail coverages. The payments that are made quickly typically pertain to auto physical damage (property) claims and property damage (liability) claims. The payments that take longer to finalize and are more difficult to estimate relate to bodily injury claims. Reporting lags are relatively short and the claim settlement process for personal automobile liability generally is the least complex of the liability products. It is generally viewed as a high frequency, low to moderate severity product line.  Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a moderate estimation risk. Personal automobile reserves are typically analyzed in five components: bodily injury liability, property damage liability, no-fault losses, collision claims and comprehensive claims. These last two components have minimum reserve risk and fast payouts and, accordingly, separate factors are not presented. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required personal automobile reserves (beyond those included in the general reserve discussion section) include: Bodily injury, property damage liability and no-fault risk factors • Trends in jury awards • Changes in the underlying court system and its philosophy • Changes in case law • Litigation trends • Increases in attorney involvement in, or impact on, claims • Frequency of claims with payment capped by policy limits • Change in average severity of accidents, or proportion of severe accidents • Changes in auto safety technology • Frequency and severity of claims involving distracted drivers and pedestrians • Subrogation opportunities • Frequency of visits to health providers • Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers • Types of health providers used • Types of medical treatments received • Changes in cost of medical treatments • Effectiveness of no-fault laws • Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment • Changes in claim handling philosophies Personal automobile book of business risk factors • Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) • Changes in underwriting standards • Changes in the use of permissible data for rating and underwriting Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves.  As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for personal automobile, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. Historically, the one-year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from -4% to 3% (averaging 0%) for the Company, and from -3% to 2% (averaging 0%) for the industry overall.  The Company’s year-to-year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year.  The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one-year changes in reserve estimates for this product line.  Personal automobile reserves represent approximately 6% of the Company’s total claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. The Company’s change in reserve estimate for this product line was -2% for 2020, -2% for 2019 and -2% for 2018.  The 2020 change primarily reflected better than expected loss experience for liability and physical damage coverages for accident years 2016 through 2018. The 2019 change primarily reflected better than expected loss experience for liability coverages in accident years 2016 through 2018. The 2018 change primarily reflected better than expected loss experience for liability coverages for accident years 2015 through 2017. 114 Personal Homeowners and Other Homeowners is generally considered a short tail coverage. Most payments are related to the property portion of the policy, where the claim reporting and settlement process is generally restricted to the insured and the insurer. Claims on property coverage are typically reported soon after the actual damage occurs, although delays of several months are not unusual.  The resulting settlement process is typically fairly short term, although exceptions do exist. The liability portion of the homeowners policy generates claims which take longer to pay due to the involvement of litigation and negotiation, but with generally small reporting lags.  Personal Lines Other products include personal umbrella policies, among others.  See “general liability reserving risk factors,” discussed above, for reserving risk factors related to umbrella coverages. Overall, the line is generally high frequency, low to moderate severity (except for catastrophes), with simple to moderate claim complexity. Homeowners reserves are typically analyzed in two components: non-catastrophe related losses and catastrophe losses. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required homeowners reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Non-catastrophe risk factors • Salvage opportunities • Amount of time to return property to residential use • Changes in weather patterns • Local building codes • Construction and building material costs • Litigation trends • Trends in jury awards • Court interpretation of policy provisions (such as occurrence definition, or wind versus flooding) • Lags in reporting claims (e.g., winter damage to summer homes, hidden damage after an earthquake, hail damage to roofs and/or equipment on roofs) • Court or legislative changes to the statute of limitations Catastrophe risk factors • Physical concentration of policyholders • Availability and cost of local contractors • Local building codes • Quality of construction of damaged homes • Amount of time to return property to residential use • For the more severe catastrophic events, “demand surge” inflation, which refers to significant short-term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services Homeowners book of business risk factors • Policy provisions mix (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) • Degree of concentration of policyholders • Changes in underwriting standards • Changes in the use of permissible data for rating and underwriting Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves.  As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for homeowners and personal lines other, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. Historically, the one-year change in the reserve estimate for this product line (excluding the umbrella line of business, which for statutory reporting purposes is included with the general liability line of business) over the last nine years has varied from -23% to 3% (averaging -9%) for the Company, and from -7% to 1% (averaging -3%) for the industry overall.  The Company’s year-to-year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year.  The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one-year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. 115 Homeowners and personal lines other reserves represent approximately 4% of the Company’s total claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. This line combines both liability and property coverages; however, the majority of the reserves relate to property.  While property is considered a short tail coverage, the one year change for property can be more volatile than that for the longer tail product lines.  This is due to the fact that the majority of the reserve for property relates to the most recent accident year, which is subject to the most uncertainty for all product lines.  This recent accident year uncertainty is relevant to property because weather-related events in the second half of the year may not be completely resolved until the following year.  Reserve estimates associated with major catastrophes, including California wildfires in recent years, may take even longer to resolve. The Company’s change in reserve estimate for this product line (excluding the umbrella line of business) was -23% for 2020, -3% for 2019 and -2% for 2018.  The 2020 change primarily reflected the PG&E subrogation recovery for accident years 2017 and 2018, partially offset by higher than expected loss experience for catastrophe and non-catastrophe losses for accident year 2019.  The 2019 change primarily reflected better than expected loss experience for catastrophe and non-catastrophe losses for accident years 2015, 2016 and  2018.  The 2018 change primarily reflected better than expected loss experience for liability coverages for accident years 2014 through 2016, largely offset by higher than expected loss experience for catastrophe losses for accident year 2017. International and Other International and other includes products written by the Company’s international operations, as well as all other products not explicitly discussed above. The principal component of “other” claim reserves is assumed reinsurance written on an excess-of-loss basis, which may include reinsurance of non-U.S. exposures, and is runoff business. International and other claim liabilities result from a mix of coverages, currencies and jurisdictions/countries. The common characteristic is the need to customize the analysis to the individual component, and the inability to rely on data characterizations and reporting requirements in the U.S. statutory reporting framework. Due to changes in the business mix for this product line over time, incurred claim liabilities for more recent years are generally shorter-tailed (due to both the products and the jurisdictions involved, e.g., Canada, the Republic of Ireland and the United Kingdom), compared to the older liabilities from runoff operations that are extremely long tail (e.g., U.S. excess liabilities reinsured through the London market, and several underwriting pools in runoff). The speed of claim reporting and claim settlement is a function of the specific coverage provided, the jurisdiction, the distribution system (e.g., underwriting pool versus direct) and the proximity of the insurance sale to the insured hazard (e.g., insured and insurer located in different countries). In particular, liabilities arising from the underwriting pools in runoff may result in significant reporting lags, settlement lags and claim complexity, due to the need to coordinate with other pool members or co-insurers through a broker or lead-insurer for claim settlement purposes. International reserves are generally analyzed by country and general coverage category (e.g., General Liability in Canada, Commercial Property in the United Kingdom, etc.). The business is also generally split by direct versus assumed reinsurance for a given coverage. Where the underlying insured hazard is outside the United States, the underlying coverages are generally similar to those described under the Homeowners, Personal Automobile, Commercial Automobile, General Liability, Commercial Property and Surety discussions above, taking into account differences in the legal environment and differences in terms and conditions. However, statutory coverage differences exist amongst various jurisdictions.  For example, in some jurisdictions there are no aggregate policy limits on certain liability coverages. Other reserves, primarily assumed reinsurance in runoff, are generally analyzed by program/pool, treaty type, and general coverage category (e.g., General Liability — excess of loss reinsurance). Excess exposure requires the insured to “prove” not only claims under the policy, but also the prior payment of claims reaching up to the excess policy’s attachment point. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required International and other reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section, and in the Personal Automobile, Homeowners, General Liability, Commercial Property, Commercial Automobile and Surety discussions above) include: International and other risk factors • Changes in claim handling procedures, including those of the primary carriers • Changes in policy provisions or court interpretation of such provision • Economic trends • New theories of liability 116 • Trends in jury awards • Changes in the propensity to sue • Changes in statutes of limitations • Changes in the underlying court system • Distortions from losses resulting from large single accounts or single issues • Changes in tort law • Changes in claim adjuster office structure (causing distortions in the data) • Changes in foreign currency exchange rates International and other book of business risk factors • Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, “claims-made” language) • Changes in underwriting standards • Product mix (e.g., size of account, industries insured, jurisdiction mix) Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves.  As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for International and other (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.2% increase (decrease) in claims and claim adjustment expense reserves.  International and other reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental) represent approximately 8% of the Company’s total claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. International and other represents a combination of different product lines, some of which are in runoff.  Comparative historical information is not available for international product lines as insurers domiciled outside of the United States do not file U.S. statutory reports. Comparative historical information on runoff business is not indicative of reasonably possible one-year changes in the reserve estimate for this mix of runoff business.  Accordingly, the Company has not included comparative analyses for International and other. Reinsurance Recoverables Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the associated claim liability. The Company evaluates and monitors the financial condition of its reinsurers under voluntary reinsurance arrangements to minimize its exposure to significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies.  In addition, in the ordinary course of business, the Company becomes involved in coverage disputes with its reinsurers. Some of these disputes could result in lawsuits and arbitrations brought by or against the reinsurers to determine the Company’s rights and obligations under the various reinsurance agreements. The Company employs dedicated specialists and comprehensive strategies to manage reinsurance collections and disputes. The Company has entered into a reinsurance contract in connection with catastrophe bonds issued by Long Point Re III.  This contract meets the requirements to be accounted for as reinsurance in accordance with guidance for accounting for reinsurance contracts.  The catastrophe bonds are described in more detail in “Item 1-Business-Catastrophe Reinsurance.” Recoverables attributable to structured settlements relate primarily to personal injury claims, of which workers’ compensation claims comprise a significant portion, for which the Company has purchased annuities and remains contingently liable in the event of a default by the companies issuing the annuities.  Recoverables attributable to mandatory pools and associations relate primarily to workers’ compensation service business.  These recoverables are supported by the participating insurance companies’ obligation to pay a pro rata share based on each company’s voluntary market share of written premium in each state in which it is a pool participant.  In the event a member of a mandatory pool or association defaults on its share of the pool’s or association’s obligations, the other members’ share of such obligation increases proportionally. The Company reports its reinsurance recoverables net of an allowance for estimated uncollectible reinsurance. The allowance is based upon the Company’s ongoing review of amounts outstanding, length of collection periods, changes in reinsurer credit standing, disputes, applicable coverage defenses and other relevant factors.  For structured settlements, the allowance is also based upon the Company’s ongoing review of life insurers’ creditworthiness and estimated amounts of coverage that would be available from state guaranty funds if a life insurer defaults. A probability-of-default methodology which reflects current and forecasted economic conditions is used to estimate the amount of uncollectible reinsurance due to credit-related factors and the estimate is reported in an allowance for estimated uncollectible reinsurance. The allowance also includes estimated uncollectible amounts related to dispute risk with reinsurers.  Amounts deemed to be uncollectible, including amounts due from known insolvent reinsurers, are written off against the allowance. Changes in the allowance, as well as any subsequent collections of amounts previously written off, are reported as part of claims and claim adjustment expenses.  The Company 117 evaluates and monitors the financial condition of its reinsurers under voluntary reinsurance arrangements to minimize its exposure to significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies. Impairments Investment Impairments See note 1 of notes to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of investment impairments. Due to the subjective nature of the Company’s analysis and estimates of future cash flows, along with the judgment that must be applied in the analysis, it is possible that the Company could reach a different conclusion whether or not to impair a security if it had access to additional information about the issuer.  Additionally, it is possible that the issuer's actual ability to meet contractual obligations may be different than what the Company determined during its analysis, which may lead to a different impairment conclusion in future periods. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Impairments See note 1 of notes to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets. OTHER UNCERTAINTIES For a discussion of other risks and uncertainties that could impact the Company’s results of operations or financial position, see note 16 of notes to the consolidated financial statements and “Item 1A—Risk Factors.” FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains, and management may make, certain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  All statements, other than statements of historical facts, may be forward-looking statements.  Words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “likely,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “projects,” “believes,” “views,” “estimates” and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements.  These statements include, among other things, the Company’s statements about: • the Company’s outlook and its future results of operations and financial condition (including, among other things, anticipated premium volume, premium rates, renewal premium changes, underwriting margins and underlying underwriting margins, net and core income, investment income and performance, loss costs, return on equity, core return on equity and expected current returns, and combined ratios and underlying combined ratios); • the impact of COVID-19 and related economic conditions, including the potential impact on the Company's investments; • the impact of legislative or regulatory actions or court decisions taken in response to COVID-19 or otherwise; • share repurchase plans; • future pension plan contributions; • the sufficiency of the Company’s asbestos and other reserves; • the impact of emerging claims issues as well as other insurance and non-insurance litigation; • the cost and availability of reinsurance coverage; • catastrophe losses; • the impact of investment (including changes in interest rates), economic (including inflation, changes in tax law, changes in commodity prices and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates) and underwriting market conditions; • strategic and operational initiatives to improve profitability and competitiveness; • the Company's competitive advantages; • new product offerings; • the impact of new or potential regulations imposed or to be imposed by the United States or other nations, including tariffs or other barriers to international trade; and • the impact of developments in the tort environment, such as increased attorney involvement in insurance claims and legislation allowing victims of sexual abuse to file or proceed with claims that otherwise would have been time-barred. The Company cautions investors that such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the Company’s control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. 118 For a discussion of some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ, see “Item 1A - Risk Factors” and “Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The Company’s forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements.