********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows are subject to a number of risks that could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks set forth below are those we consider most significant. We face other risks, however, that we do not currently perceive to be material which could cause actual results and conditions to differ materially from our expectations. You should evaluate all risks before you invest in our securities. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely impacted. In that case, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Economic Conditions Our global operations subject us to economic risks. Our global operations are dependent upon products manufactured, purchased and sold in the U.S. and internationally. These activities are subject to risks that are inherent in operating globally, including: • changes in local laws and regulations including potential imposition of currency restrictions, new or changing tax laws, variations in monetary policies, and other restraints; • limitation of ownership rights, including expropriation of assets by a local government, and limitation on the ability to repatriate earnings; • sovereign debt crises and currency instability in developed and developing countries; • trade protection measures such as import or export restrictions and requirements, the imposition of burdensome tariffs and quotas or revocation or material modification of trade agreements; • difficulty in staffing and managing global operations including supply chain disruptions which may be exacerbated by pandemics or other public health crises, natural disasters, or other events affecting the supply of labor, materials and components; • difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through non-U.S. legal systems; • national and international conflict, including war, civil disturbances and terrorist acts; and • recessions, economic downturns, price instability, slowing economic growth and social and political instability. These risks could increase our cost of doing business internationally, increase our counterparty risk, disrupt our operations, disrupt the ability of suppliers and customers to fulfill their obligations, limit our ability to sell products in certain markets and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Commodity and raw material shortages, supply chain risks and price increases could adversely affect our financial results. We rely on suppliers to secure commodities, particularly steel and non-ferrous metals, and third-party parts and components required for the manufacture of our products. A disruption in deliveries from our suppliers or decreased availability of commodities and third-party parts and components could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers, increase our operating costs, or impact timing and delivery of products and services. Disruptions have occurred due to the COVID-19 pandemic, geopolitical events, electronic parts shortages, supplier capacity constraints, labor shortages, port congestion, logistical problems, political unrest, and other issues. Some of these disruptions have resulted in supply chain constraints affecting our business including our ability to timely produce and ship our products. The unavailability of some commodities and third-party parts and components could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Volatility in the prices of commodities and third-party parts and components or the impact of inflationary increases could increase the costs of our products and services. We may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Conversely, in the event there is deflation, we may experience pressure from our customers to reduce prices. There can be no assurance that we would be able to reduce our costs (through negotiations with suppliers or other measures) to offset any such price concessions which could adversely impact results of operations and cash flows. While we use financial derivatives or supplier price locks to partially hedge against this volatility, by using these instruments we may potentially forego the benefits that might result from favorable fluctuations in prices and could experience lower margins in periods of declining commodity prices. In addition, while hedging activity may minimize near-term volatility of the commodity prices, it would not protect us from long-term commodity price increases. 13 Some of our purchases are from sole or limited source suppliers for reasons of cost effectiveness, uniqueness of design, or product quality. If these suppliers encounter financial or operating difficulties, we might not be able to quickly establish or qualify replacement sources of supply. We face significant competition in the markets that we serve. The markets that we serve are highly competitive. We compete worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products. There has been consolidation and new entrants (including non-traditional competitors) within our industries and there may be future consolidation and new entrants which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the competitive landscape in which we operate. Due to our global footprint we are competing worldwide with large companies and with smaller, local operators who may have customer, regulatory or economic advantages in the geographies in which they are located. In addition, some of our competitors may employ pricing and other strategies that are not traditional. While we understand our markets and competitive landscape, there is always the risk of disruptive technologies coming from companies that are not traditionally manufacturers or service providers of our products. As we integrate acquisitions into our portfolio of solutions, we may face new competitors in our target markets. We must continually innovate new or enhanced products and services to maintain and expand our brand recognition and market leadership position to effectively compete in the markets that we serve. A failure or inability to effectively address market trends and compete in our market may adversely affect demand for our products and services, which may cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our growth is dependent, in part, on the timely development, commercialization and acceptance of new and enhanced products and services. We must efficiently and effectively innovate, develop and commercialize new and enhanced products and services in a rapidly changing technological and business environment in order to remain competitive in our current and future markets and in order to continue to grow our business. The timely development and commercialization of new products and services and the enhancement of existing products and services is required to meet our customer demands, market trends, and regulatory requirements. The ongoing refreshment of our product and service offerings portfolio requires strategic choices of a significant investment of resources, anticipation of the opportunity and risks of new technologies, and the ability to compete with others who may have superior resources in specific technology domains. We cannot provide any assurance that any new or enhanced product or service will be successfully commercialized in a timely manner, if ever, or, if commercialized, will result in returns greater than our investment. Investment in a product or service could divert our attention and resources from other projects that become more commercially viable in the market. We also cannot provide any assurance that any new or enhanced product or service will be accepted by our current and future markets. Failure to timely and accurately predict customer needs and preferences, anticipate regulatory conditions affecting current and future products, mitigate supply chain disruptions on new products, or our failure to develop new and enhanced products and services that are accepted by these markets could have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Capital and credit market conditions could adversely affect our business operations, investments, and financial performance. Instability in U.S. and global capital and credit markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate volatility, or reductions in the credit ratings assigned to us by independent rating agencies could reduce our access to capital markets or increase the cost of funding our short and long term credit requirements. In particular, if we are unable to access capital and credit markets, or access them on terms that are acceptable to us, we may not be able to make certain investments or fully execute our business plans and strategies. If we were to raise funding through the issuance of equity securities, our shareholders would experience dilution of their existing ownership interest. If we were to raise significant additional funds by issuing debt, we could be subject to limitations on our operations due to restrictive covenants or rating agencies could downgrade our credit ratings or put them on negative watch. Our suppliers and customers are also dependent upon the capital and credit markets. Limitations on the ability of customers, suppliers or financial counterparties to access credit at interest rates and on terms that are acceptable to them could lead to insolvencies of key suppliers and customers, limit or prevent customers from obtaining credit to finance purchases of our products and services and cause delays in the delivery of key products from suppliers. The performance of the financial markets and interest rates can also impact the value of our defined benefit pension plans and other post-retirement benefit programs. Significant decreases in discount rate or investment losses on plan assets may increase our funding obligations, which may adversely affect our financial results. See Note 11 – “Pensions and Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions.” 14 Currency exchange rate fluctuations and other related risks may adversely affect our results. We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in currency exchange rates. See Part II Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.” We have operations throughout the world that manufacture and sell products in various international markets. As a result, we are exposed to movements in exchange rates of various currencies against the U.S. dollar as well as against other currencies throughout the world. Many of our non-U.S. operations have a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar, and their results are translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes. Therefore, our reported results will be higher or lower depending on the weakening or strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the respective foreign currency. Decreased strength of the U.S. dollar could also adversely affect the cost of raw materials, products, or services that we purchase from non-U.S. suppliers. We use derivative instruments to partially hedge those material exposures that cannot be naturally offset. The instruments utilized are viewed as risk management tools and are not used for trading or speculative purposes. To minimize the risk of counterparty non-performance, derivative instrument agreements are made only through major financial institutions with significant experience in such derivative instruments. We also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. Changes in U.S. or foreign trade policies and other factors beyond our control may adversely impact our business and operating results Changes in governmental policies on foreign trade, geopolitical tensions and trade disputes can disrupt supply chains and increase the cost of our products. This could cause our products to be more expensive for customers, which could reduce the demand for or attractiveness of such products. In addition, a geopolitical conflict in a region where we operate could disrupt our ability to conduct business operations in that region. Beyond tariffs and sanctions, countries also could adopt other measures, such as controls on imports or exports of goods, technology, or data, which could adversely affect our operations and supply chain and limit our ability to offer our products and services as intended. These kinds of restrictions could be adopted with little to no advanced notice, and we may not be able to effectively mitigate the adverse impacts from such measures. Political uncertainty surrounding trade or other international disputes also could have a negative impact on customer confidence and willingness to spend money, which could impair our future growth. World geopolitical conflict, including the Russia Ukraine conflict, has created a humanitarian crisis, materially impacted economic activities, and may materially impact our global and regional operations. The global economy has been negatively impacted by the military conflict between Russia and Ukraine. Governments including the U.S., United Kingdom, and those of the European Union have imposed export controls on certain products and financial and economic sanctions on certain industry sectors and parties in Russia which has triggered retaliatory sanctions by the Russian government and its allies. The outcome and future impacts of the conflict remain highly uncertain, continue to evolve and may grow more severe the longer the military action and sanctions remain in effect. Risks associated with the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, as well as other world geopolitical conflicts that have arisen or could arise in the future, include, but are not limited to, adverse effects on political developments and on general economic conditions, including inflation and consumer spending; disruptions to our supply chains; disruptions to our information systems, including through network failures, malicious or disruptive software, or cyberattacks; trade disruptions; energy shortages or rationing that may adversely impact our manufacturing facilities and consumer spending, particularly in Europe; rising fuel and/or rising costs of producing, procuring and shipping our products; our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and constraints, volatility or disruption in the financial markets. When Russia invaded Ukraine in February 2022, we immediately halted new orders and shipments into and out of Russia and Belarus. As of December 31, 2022, we had exited all business activity within these markets. To date, the Russia-Ukraine war has not had a material adverse effect on our business or financial performance. We have no way to predict the progress or outcome of the situation in Ukraine. Until there is a peaceful resolution, the conflict could have a material adverse effect on our operations, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, growth prospects and business outlook. 15 The full extent to which a resurgence of COVID-19, a new pandemic, or spread of new infectious diseases or other public health crises will affect us will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be accurately predicted. The COVID-19 pandemic has had widespread, rapidly evolving and unpredictable impacts on global society, economics, financial markets and business practices. Government efforts to contain COVID-19 have included travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter in place orders and shutdowns. Our business and global operations have been impacted by supply chain delays, higher material costs and product prices, lower revenues for some quarters, and unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates. The COVID-19 pandemic has also at times affected our ability to obtain needed products and services, operate in certain locations, maintain our distribution channels, and attract and retain talent. We continue to closely monitor the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on all aspects of our business and geographies, including how it has and will impact our customers, team members, suppliers, vendors, business partners and distribution channels. The extent to which COVID-19 or other widespread outbreaks of infectious disease or other public health crises may impact our business going forward will depend on factors such as the duration and scope of infections; governmental, business, and individuals' actions in response to the health crisis; travel and other restrictions; and the impact on economic activity including the possibility of financial market instability or recession. How a resurgence of COVID-19 or other public health crises will affect us will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be accurately predicted. Such events may also exacerbate other risks discussed herein, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. Risks Related to Litigation Material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We and certain of our subsidiaries are currently and may in the future become involved in legal and regulatory proceedings and disputes incidental to the operation of our business or the business operations of previously-owned entities. Our business may be adversely affected by the outcome of these proceedings and other contingencies (including, without limitation, contract claims or other commercial disputes, product liability, product defects, environmental matters, and asbestos-related matters) that cannot be predicted with certainty. Moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against the total aggregate amount of losses sustained as a result of such proceedings and contingencies. As required by generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, we establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings and other events could affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a reserve and we may be required to make additional material payments, which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. See also Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” and Part II, Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements Note 20, “Commitments and Contingencies.” The Aldrich and Murray Chapter 11 cases involve various risks and uncertainties that could have a material effect on us. Our indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries Aldrich and Murray have each filed a voluntary petition for reorganization under the Bankruptcy Code in the Bankruptcy Court. The goal of these Chapter 11 filings is to resolve equitably and permanently all current and future asbestos-related claims in a manner beneficial to claimants, Aldrich and Murray through court approval of a plan of reorganization that would create a trust pursuant to section 524(g) of the Bankruptcy Code, establish claims resolution procedures for all current and future asbestos-related claims against Aldrich and Murray and channel such claims to the trust for resolution in accordance with those procedures. Such a resolution, if achieved, would likely include a channeling injunction to enjoin asbestos claims resolved in the Chapter 11 cases from being filed or pursued against us or our affiliates. The Chapter 11 cases remain pending as of February 8, 2024. There are a number of risks and uncertainties associated with these Chapter 11 cases, including, among others, those related to: • the ability to consummate the agreement in principle reached with the court appointed legal representative of future asbestos claimants (the FCR); • the outcome of negotiations with the committee representing current asbestos claimants (ACC) and other participants in the Chapter 11 cases, including insurers, concerning the terms of a plan of reorganization, including the size and structure of a potential section 524(g) trust to pay the asbestos liability of Aldrich and Murray and the means for funding that trust, and the risk that the ACC will object to, and the risk that insurers will not support, a plan of reorganization having terms acceptable to Aldrich and Murray; • the actions of representatives of the asbestos claimants, including the ACC ’ s pursuit of certain causes of action against us, following the Bankruptcy Court ’ s grant of the ACC ’ s motion seeking standing to investigate and pursue certain causes of action at a hearing held on January 27, 2022, and other potential actions by the ACC in 16 opposition to, or otherwise inconsistent with, the efforts by Aldrich and Murray to diligently prosecute the Chapter 11 cases and ultimately seek Bankruptcy Court approval of a plan of reorganization; • the decisions of the Bankruptcy Court relating to numerous substantive and procedural aspects of the Chapter 11 cases, including in connection with a proceeding by Aldrich and Murray to estimate their aggregate liability for asbestos claims, following the Bankruptcy Court ’ s grant of their motion seeking such a proceeding, and other efforts by Aldrich and Murray to diligently prosecute the Chapter 11 cases and ultimately seek Bankruptcy Court approval of a plan of reorganization, whether such decisions are in response to actions of representatives of the asbestos claimants or otherwise; • the ultimate determination of the asbestos liability of Aldrich and Murray to be satisfied under a plan of reorganization pursuant to the court-approved estimation proceeding; • the ability of Aldrich and Murray to obtain the necessary approvals of the Bankruptcy Court or the United States District Court for the Western District of North Carolina (the District Court) of a plan of reorganization; • the decisions of the appellate courts regarding any orders of the Bankruptcy Court or the District Court that may be appealed, including the Bankruptcy Court's order dated December 28, 2023 denying the motions to dismiss the Chapter 11 cases brought by the ACC and certain individual claimants and any orders of the Bankruptcy Court or District Court approving a plan of reorganization; • any orders approving a plan of reorganization and issuing the channeling injunction not becoming final and non-appealable; • the terms and conditions of any plan of reorganization that is ultimately confirmed in the Chapter 11 cases; • delays in the confirmation or effective date of a plan of reorganization due to factors beyond the Company’s control; and • the risk that the ultimate amount required under any final plan of reorganization may exceed the amounts agreed to with the FCR in the Plan. The ability of Aldrich and Murray to successfully reorganize and resolve their asbestos liabilities will depend on various factors, including their ability to reach agreements with representatives of the asbestos claimants on the terms of a plan of reorganization that satisfies all applicable legal requirements and to obtain the requisite court approvals of such plan, and remains subject to the risks and uncertainties described above. We cannot ensure that Aldrich and Murray can successfully reorganize, nor can we give any assurances as to the amount of the ultimate obligations under the Funding Agreements or any plan of reorganization, or the resulting impact on our financial condition, results of operations or future prospects. We also are unable to predict the timing of any of the foregoing matters or the timing for a resolution of the Chapter 11 cases, all of which could have an impact on us. It also is possible that, in the Chapter 11 cases, various parties will be successful in bringing claims against us and other related parties, including by successfully challenging the 2020 corporate restructuring, consolidating entities and/or raising allegations that we are liable for the asbestos-related liabilities of Aldrich and Murray as set forth in certain pleadings filed by the ACC in the Chapter 11 cases. Although we believe we have no such responsibility for liabilities of Aldrich and Murray, except indirectly through our obligation to provide funding to Aldrich and Murray under the terms of the Funding Agreements, we cannot provide assurances that such claims will not be successful. In sum, the outcome of the Chapter 11 cases is uncertain and there is uncertainty as to what extent we may have to contribute to a section 524(g) trust under the Funding Agreements. For detailed information on the bankruptcy cases of Aldrich and Murray, see Part I, Item 1, “Business - Asbestos-Related Matters,” Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” Part II, Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Significant Events,” and Part II, Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1, “Description of Company,” and Note 20, “Commitments and Contingencies.” Risks Related to Cybersecurity and Technology We are subject to risks relating to our information technology systems. We rely extensively on information technology systems, some of which are supported by third party vendors including cloud-based systems and managed service providers, to manage and operate our business. We invest in new information technology systems designed to improve our operations. These information technology systems can be damaged, disrupted or shut down due to cyberattacks, computer viruses, ransomware, human error or malfeasance (including by employees), power outages, 17 hardware failures, telecommunication or utility failures, catastrophes or other unforeseen events. If these systems cease to function properly, if these systems experience security breaches or disruptions or if these systems do not provide the anticipated benefits or if we are unable to commit sufficient resources to maintain and enhance our information technology infrastructure to keep pace with continuous development in information processing technology, our ability to manage our operations could be impaired, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Security breaches or disruptions of the technology systems, infrastructure or products of the Company or our vendors could negatively impact our business and financial results. Our information technology systems, networks and infrastructure and technology embedded in certain of our control products have been and are at risk to cyber attacks and unauthorized security intrusions. From time to time, vulnerabilities in our products are discovered and updates are made available, but customers are at risk until those updates are applied or other mitigating actions are taken by customers to protect their systems and networks. Like other large companies, certain of our information technology systems and the systems of our vendors have been subject to computer viruses, malicious code, unauthorized access, phishing attempts, denial-of-service attacks and other cyber attacks and we expect that we and our vendors will be subject to similar attacks in the future. We and some of our third-party suppliers have experienced cyber-based attacks, and, due to the evolving threat landscape, may continue to experience attacks, potentially with more frequency and severity. We continue to make investments and adopt measures designed to enhance our protection, detection, response, and recovery capabilities, and to mitigate potential risks to our technology, products, services and operations from potential cyber-attacks. The methods used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage information technology systems are constantly changing and evolving. Despite having instituted security policies and business continuity plans, and implementing and regularly reviewing and updating processes and procedures to protect against unauthorized access and requiring similar protections from our vendors, the ever-evolving threats mean we are continually evaluating and adapting our systems and processes and ask our vendors to do the same, and there is no guarantee that such systems and processes will be adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches or misuses of data. Hardware, software or applications we develop or obtain from third parties sometimes contain defects in design or deployment or other problems that could unexpectedly result in security breaches or disruptions. Open source software components embedded into certain software that we use has in the past contained vulnerabilities and others may be discovered in the future. Such vulnerabilities can expose our systems to malware or allow third party access to data. While these issues are not specific to our Company, we are required to take action when such vulnerabilities are identified including patching and modification to certain of our products and enterprise systems. To date, there has been no material business impact from such vulnerabilities, but we continue to monitor these issues and our responses are ongoing. Our systems, networks and certain of our control products and those of our vendors are at risk to system damage, malicious attacks from hackers, employee errors or misconduct, viruses, power and utility outages, and other catastrophic events. Any of these incidents could cause significant harm to our business by negatively impacting our business operations, compromising the security of our proprietary information or the personally identifiable information of our customers, employees and business partners which may be subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and other controls. These events potentially expose us to litigation or other legal actions against us or the imposition of penalties, fines, fees or liabilities. Such events could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and could damage our reputation which could adversely affect our business. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all the costs related to a cybersecurity attack or disruptions resulting from such attacks. Customers are increasingly requiring cybersecurity protections and mandating cybersecurity standards in our products, and we may incur additional costs to comply with such demands. 18 Data privacy and protection laws are evolving and present increasing compliance challenges. The regulatory environment surrounding data privacy and protection is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and changing requirements across businesses and geographic areas. We are required to comply with complex regulations when collecting, transferring and using personal data, which increases our costs, affects our competitiveness and can expose us to substantial fines or other penalties. Intellectual property infringement claims of others and the inability to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our competitive position. Our intellectual property (IP) rights are important to our business and include numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, proprietary technology, technical data, business processes, and other confidential information. Although in aggregate we consider our intellectual property rights to be valuable to our operations, we do not believe that our business is materially dependent on a single intellectual property right or any group of them. In our opinion, engineering, production skills and experience are more responsible for our market position than our patents and/or licenses. Nonetheless, this intellectual property may be subject to challenge, infringement, invalidation or circumvention by third parties. Despite extensive security measures, our intellectual property may be subject to misappropriation through unauthorized access of our information technology systems, employee theft, or theft by private parties or foreign actors, including those affiliated with or controlled by state actors. Our business and competitive position could be harmed by such events. Our ability to protect our intellectual property rights by legal recourse or otherwise may be limited, particularly in countries where laws or enforcement practices are inadequate or undeveloped. Our inability to enforce our IP rights under any of these circumstances could have an impact on our competitive position and business. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters Our reputation, ability to do business and results of operations could be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. We are subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal and state and non-U.S. laws, regulations and policies, including laws related to anti-corruption, anti-human trafficking, anti-bribery, export and import compliance, anti-trust, cybersecurity, data privacy, and money laundering, due to our global operations. We cannot provide assurance our internal controls will always protect us from the improper conduct of our employees, agents and business partners. Any violations of law or improper conduct could damage our reputation and, depending on the circumstances, subject us to, among other things, civil and criminal penalties, material fines, equitable remedies (including profit disgorgement and injunctions on future conduct), securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could have a material adverse impact on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the market value of our stock. Our operations are subject to regulatory risks. Our U.S. and non-U.S. operations are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including among others, laws related to the environment, commercial trade, and health and safety. We have made, and will be required to continue to make, significant expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. Any violations of applicable laws and regulations could lead to significant penalties, fines or other sanctions. Changes in current laws and regulations could require us to increase our compliance expenditures, cause us to significantly alter or discontinue offering existing products and services or cause us to develop new products and services. Altering current products and services or developing new products and services to comply with changes in the applicable laws and regulations could require significant research and development investments, increase the cost of providing the products and services and adversely affect the demand for our products and services. The U.S. federal government and various states and municipalities have enacted or may enact legislation intended to deny government contracts to U.S. companies that reincorporate outside of the U.S. or have reincorporated outside of the U.S or may take other actions negatively impacting such companies. If we are unable to effectively respond to changes to applicable laws and regulations, interpretations of applicable laws and regulations, or comply with existing and future laws and regulations, our competitive position, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely impacted. 19 Global climate change and related regulations could negatively affect our business. Climate change presents immediate and long-term risks to our Company and to our customers, with the risks expected to increase over time, including, among others, acute physical risks (such as flooding, hurricanes, or wildfires) or chronic physical risks (such as droughts, heat waves, or sea level changes). Our products and operations are subject to and affected by environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over our international operations, including with respect to the use, storage, and dependence upon refrigerants which are considered greenhouse gases. Refrigerants are essential to many of our products and there is concern regarding the global warming potential of such materials. As such, national, regional and international regulations and policies are being implemented to curtail the use of certain refrigerants. Some of these regulations could have a negative competitive impact on our company by requiring us to make costly changes to our products. As regulations reduce the use and potential availability of the current class of widely used refrigerants, we are developing and selling our next generation products that utilize lower global warming potential solutions. There can be no assurance that climate change or environmental regulation or deregulation will not have a negative competitive impact on our ability to sell our products or that economic returns will match the investment that we are making in new product development. We face increasing complexity related to product design, the availability and use of regulated materials, the associated energy consumption and efficiency related to the use of products, the transportation and shipping of products, climate change regulations, and the reuse, recycling and/or disposal of products and their components at end-of-use or useful life as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to our transition to a more circular economy. There continues to be a lack of consistent climate legislation, which creates economic and regulatory uncertainty. Such regulatory uncertainty extends to future incentives for energy efficient buildings and vehicles and costs of compliance, which may impact the demand for our products, obsolescence of our products and our results of operations. Our climate commitment requires us to offer a full line of next generation products by 2030 without compromising safety or energy efficiency. Additionally, in 2019, we announced our 2030 commitment which targets reducing one gigaton – one billion metric tons – of carbon emissions (CO2e) from our customers’ footprint by 2030. While we are committed to pursuing these sustainability objectives, there can be no assurance that we will successfully achieve our commitments. Failure to meet these commitments could result in reputational and other harm to our company. Changes regarding climate risk management and practices may result in higher regulatory, compliance risks and costs. Risks Related to Our Business Operations Our business strategy includes acquiring businesses, product lines, technologies and capabilities, plants and other assets, entering into joint ventures and making investments that complement our existing businesses. We also occasionally divest businesses that we own. We may not identify acquisition or joint venture candidates or investment opportunities at the same rate as the past. Acquisitions, dispositions, joint ventures and investments that we identify could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. We continue to analyze and evaluate the acquisition and divestiture of strategic businesses and product lines, technologies and capabilities, plants and other assets, joint ventures and investments with the potential to, among other things, strengthen our industry position, enhance our existing set of product and services offerings, increase productivity and efficiencies, grow revenues, earnings and cash flow, help us stay competitive or reduce costs. There can be no assurance that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with suitable candidates in the future, that we will consummate these transactions at rates similar to the past or that completed transactions will be successful. Strategic transactions may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Such transactions involve numerous other risks, including: • diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; • difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business, including doing so without high costs; • difficulties in obtaining and verifying the financial statements and other business and other due diligence information of acquired businesses; • inability to obtain required regulatory approvals and/or required financing on favorable terms; • potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships or key customers of either acquired businesses or our business; • assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen or undisclosed liabilities of acquired businesses and exposure to regulatory sanctions; • inheriting internal control deficiencies; 20 • dilution of interests of holders of our common shares through the issuance of equity securities or equity-linked securities; and • in the case of joint ventures and other investments, interests that diverge from those of our partners without the ability to direct the management and operations of the joint venture or investment in the manner we believe most appropriate to achieve the expected value. Any acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures or investments may ultimately harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. There are additional risks related to our Reverse Morris Trust transaction, see Part IA, Item 1A, “ Risk Factors - Risks Related to the Transactions ” for more information. Natural disasters, epidemics or other unexpected events may disrupt our operations, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and may not be fully covered by insurance. The occurrence of one or more catastrophic events including hurricanes, fires, earthquakes, floods and other forms of severe weather, health epidemics or pandemics or other contagious outbreaks or other catastrophic events, including wars, conflicts, or terrorism in the U.S. or in other countries in which we operate or are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Natural disasters, power outages, health epidemics or pandemics or other contagious outbreaks or other unexpected events, including wars, conflicts, or acts of terrorism, could result in physical damage to and complete or partial closure of one or more of our plants, temporary or long-term disruption of our operations by causing business interruptions, material scarcity, price volatility or supply chain disruptions. Climate change is a risk multiplier with respect to these physical disasters in both frequency and severity and may affect our global business operations as a result. Existing insurance arrangements may not provide full protection for the costs that may arise from such events, particularly if such events are catastrophic in nature or occur in combination. The occurrence of any of these events could increase our insurance and other operating costs or harm our sales in affected areas. Our business success depends on attracting, developing, and retaining highly qualified talent. The skills, experience, and industry knowledge of our employees significantly benefit our operations and performance. The market for employees and leaders with certain skills and experiences is very competitive, and difficulty attracting, developing, and retaining members of our management team and key employees could have a negative effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Maintaining a positive and inclusive culture and work environment, offering attractive compensation, benefits, and development opportunities, and effectively implementing processes and technology that enable our employees to work effectively and efficiently are important to our ability to attract and retain employees. Our business may be adversely affected by temporary work stoppages, union negotiations, labor disputes and other matters associated with our labor force. Certain of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or works councils. We experience from time-to-time temporary work stoppages, union negotiations, labor disputes and other matters associated with our labor force and some of these events could result in significant increases in our cost of labor, impact our productivity or damage our reputation. Additionally, a work stoppage at one of our suppliers could materially and adversely affect our operations if an alternative source of supply were not readily available. Stoppages by employees of our customers could also result in reduced demand for our products. Risks Relating to Tax Matters Changes in tax or other laws, regulations or treaties, changes in our status under U.S. or non-U.S. laws or adverse determinations by taxing or other governmental authorities could increase our tax burden or otherwise affect our financial condition or operating results, as well as subject our shareholders to additional taxes. The taxes associated with our operations and corporate structure could be impacted by changes in tax or other laws, treaties or regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by the U.S. or non-U.S. tax or other governmental authorities. Even after legislation is enacted, further guidance, regulations and technical corrections pertaining to the legislation continue to be issued by the tax authorities, some of which may have retroactive application. We continue to monitor and review new guidance and regulations as they are issued, as any changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. In addition, governmental authorities are actively engaged in formulating new legislative proposals. Any future legislative changes to the tax laws and judicial or regulatory interpretation thereof, the geographic mix of earnings, changes in overall profitability, and other factors could also materially impact our effective tax rate. 21 We continue to monitor for other tax changes, U.S. (including state and local) and non-U.S. related, which can also adversely impact our overall tax burden. From time to time, proposals have been made and/or legislation has been introduced to change the tax laws, regulations or interpretations thereof of various jurisdictions or limit tax treaty benefits that if enacted or implemented could materially increase our tax burden and/or effective tax rate and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) has released proposals to create an agreed set of international rules for fighting base erosion and profit shifting, including Pillar One and Pillar Two, such that tax laws in countries in which we do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could adversely impact us. On December 12, 2022, the European Union (EU) Member States agreed in principle on the introduction of a global minimum tax rate (proposed 15% minimum tax rate). On December 18, 2023, Ireland enacted laws related to this minimum tax, effective January 1, 2024. We are continuing to evaluate the potential impacts of proposed and enacted legislative changes, in Ireland and elsewhere. We anticipate an increase to our global effective tax rate related to these changes. In addition to the above, the European Commission has been very active in investigating whether various tax regimes or private tax rulings provided by a country to particular taxpayers may constitute State Aid. We cannot predict the outcome of any of these potential changes or investigations in any of the jurisdictions, but if any of the above occurs and impacts us, this could materially increase our tax burden and/or effective tax rate and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. While we monitor proposals and other developments that would materially impact our tax burden and/or effective tax rate and investigate our options, we could still be subject to increased taxation on a prospective basis no matter what action we undertake if certain legislative proposals or regulatory changes are enacted, certain tax treaties are amended and/or our interpretation of applicable tax or other laws is challenged and determined to be incorrect. In particular, any changes and/or differing interpretations of applicable tax law that have the effect of disregarding the shareholders' decision to reorganize in Ireland, limiting our ability to take advantage of tax treaties between jurisdictions, modifying or eliminating the deductibility of various currently deductible payments, or increasing the tax burden of operating or being resident in a particular country could subject us to increased taxation. In addition, tax authorities periodically review tax returns filed by us and can raise issues regarding our filing positions, timing and amount of income or deductions, and the allocation of income among the jurisdictions in which we operate. These examinations on their own, or any subsequent litigation related to the examinations, may result in additional taxes or penalties against us. If the ultimate result of these audits differs from our original or adjusted estimates, they could have a material impact on our tax provision. Risks Related to our Reverse Morris Trust Transaction On February 29, 2020 (Distribution Date), we completed our Reverse Morris Trust transaction (the Transaction) with Gardner Denver Holdings, Inc. (Gardner Denver, which changed its name to Ingersoll Rand Inc. (Ingersoll Rand) after the Transaction) whereby we distributed Ingersoll-Rand U.S. HoldCo, Inc., which contained our former Industrial segment (Ingersoll Rand Industrial) through a pro rata distribution (the Distribution) to shareholders of record as of February 24, 2020 (Spin-off Shareholders). Ingersoll Rand Industrial then merged with a wholly-owned subsidiary of Ingersoll Rand. Upon close of the Transaction, the Spin-off Shareholders received approximately 50.1% of the shares of Ingersoll Rand common stock on a fully-diluted basis and Gardner Denver shareholders retained approximately 49.9% of the shares of Ingersoll Rand on a fully diluted basis. As a result, Spin-off Shareholders received 0.8824 shares of Ingersoll Rand common stock with respect to each share of our stock owned as of February 24, 2020. In connection with the Transaction, we received a special cash payment of $1.9 billion. If the Distribution as part of our Reverse Morris Trust Transaction is determined to be taxable for Irish tax purposes, significant Irish tax liabilities may arise for the Spin-off Shareholders. We received an opinion from Irish Revenue regarding certain tax matters associated with the Distribution, as well as a legal opinion from our Irish counsel Arthur Cox LLP, regarding certain Irish tax consequences of the Distribution for the Spin-off Shareholders. For the Spin-off Shareholders who are not resident or ordinarily resident in Ireland for Irish tax purposes and who do not hold their shares in connection with a trade or business carried on by such Spin-off Shareholders through an Irish branch or agency, we consider, based on both opinions taken together, that no adverse Irish tax consequences for such Spin-off Shareholders should have arisen. These opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions and certain representations. Notwithstanding the opinion from Irish Revenue, Irish Revenue could ultimately determine on audit that the Distribution is taxable for Irish tax purposes, for example, if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions or representations are not correct or have been violated. A legal opinion represents the tax adviser’s best legal judgment and is not binding on Irish Revenue or the courts and Irish Revenue or the courts may not agree with the legal opinion. In addition, the legal opinion is based on current law and cannot be relied upon if current law changes with retroactive effect. If the Distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable for Irish tax purposes, we and the Spin-off Shareholders could have significant Irish tax liabilities as a result of the 22 Distribution, and there could be a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future reporting periods. If the Distribution together with certain related transactions do not qualify as tax-free under Sections 355 and 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, including as a result of subsequent acquisitions of stock of the Company or Ingersoll Rand, then the Company and the Spin-off Shareholders may be required to pay substantial U.S. federal income taxes, and Ingersoll Rand may be obligated to indemnify the Company for such taxes imposed on the Company. At the time of the Distribution, we received an opinion from our U.S. tax counsel Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP (Paul Weiss) substantially to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Distribution together with certain related transactions undertaken in anticipation of the Distribution and taking into account the merger of Ingersoll Rand Industrial with the wholly-owned subsidiary of Ingersoll Rand will qualify as a tax-free transaction under Sections 368(a), 361 and 355 of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code), with the result that we and the Spin-off Shareholders will not recognize any gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a result of the spin-off. The opinion of our counsel was based on, among other things, certain representations and assumptions as to factual matters made by Ingersoll Rand, Ingersoll Rand Industrial and the Company. The failure of any factual representation or assumption to be true, correct and complete in all material respects could adversely affect the validity of the opinion of counsel. An opinion of counsel represents counsel’s best legal judgment, is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) or the courts, and the IRS or the courts may not agree with the opinion. In addition, an opinion will be based on current law, and cannot be relied upon if current law changes with retroactive effect. If the Distribution, and/or related internal transactions in anticipation of the Distribution ultimately are determined to be taxable, we could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities, which could cause a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future reporting periods, although if this determination resulted from certain actions taken by Ingersoll Rand Industrial or Ingersoll Rand, Ingersoll Rand would be required to bear the cost of any resultant tax liability pursuant to the terms of the Tax Matters Agreement dated February 29, 2020, among Ingersoll-Rand Plc, Ingersoll-Rand Lux International Holding Company S.à r.l, Ingersoll-Rand Services Company, Ingersoll-Rand U.S. HoldCo, Inc., and Gardner Denver Holdings, Inc. (Tax Matters Agreement). The Distribution will be taxable to the Company pursuant to Section 355(e) of the Code if there is a 50% or greater change in ownership of either the Company or Ingersoll Rand Industrial, directly or indirectly (including through such a change in ownership of Ingersoll Rand), as part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the Distribution. A Section 355(e) change of ownership would not make the Distribution taxable to the Spin-off Shareholders, but instead may result in corporate-level taxable gain to certain of our subsidiaries. Because the Spin-off Shareholders will collectively be treated as owning more than 50% of the Ingersoll Rand common stock following the merger, the merger alone should not cause the Distribution to be taxable to our subsidiaries under Section 355(e). However, Section 355(e) might apply if other acquisitions of stock of the Company before or after the merger, or of Ingersoll Rand before or after the merger, are considered to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the Distribution together with certain related transactions. If Section 355(e) applied, certain of our subsidiaries might recognize a very substantial amount of taxable gain, although if this applied as a result of certain actions taken by Ingersoll Rand Industrial, Ingersoll Rand or certain specified Ingersoll Rand stockholders, Ingersoll Rand would be required to bear the cost of any resultant tax liability under Section 355(e) pursuant to the terms of the Tax Matters Agreement. If the merger does not qualify as a tax-free reorganization under Section 368(a) of the Code, the Spin-off Shareholders may be required to pay substantial U.S. federal income taxes. On the Distribution Date, we have received an opinion from Paul Weiss, and Ingersoll Rand received an opinion from their counsel Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, substantially to the effect that the merger will qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code with the result that U.S. holders of Ingersoll Rand Industrial common stock who received Ingersoll Rand common stock in the merger will not recognize any gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes (except with respect to cash received in lieu of fractional shares of Ingersoll Rand common stock). These opinions were based upon, among other things, certain representations and assumptions as to factual matters made by Ingersoll Rand, the Company, Ingersoll Rand Industrial and the merger subsidiary used by Ingersoll Rand. The failure of any factual representation or assumption to be true, correct and complete in all material respects could adversely affect the validity of the opinions. An opinion of counsel represents counsel’s best legal judgment, is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and the IRS or the courts may not agree with the opinion. In addition, the opinions are based on current law, and cannot be relied upon if current law changes with retroactive effect. If the merger were taxable, U.S. holders of the common stock of Ingersoll Rand Industrial would be considered to have made a taxable sale of their Ingersoll Rand Industrial common stock to Ingersoll Rand, and such U.S. holders of Ingersoll Rand Industrial would generally recognize taxable gain or loss on their receipt of Ingersoll Rand common stock in the merger. 23 Risks Related to Our Irish Domicile Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. The United States currently does not have a treaty with Ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. As such, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on U.S. federal or state civil liability laws, including the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws, or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. As an Irish company, we are governed by the Irish Companies Act, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions, indemnification of directors and shareholder lawsuits. Likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an Irish company generally are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. Accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. In addition, Irish law does not allow for any form of legal proceedings directly equivalent to the class action available in the United States. Irish law allows shareholders to authorize share capital which then can be issued by a board of directors without shareholder approval. Also, subject to specified exceptions, Irish law grants statutory pre-emptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares for cash but allows shareholders to authorize the waiver of the statutory pre-emptive rights with respect to any particular allotment of shares. Under Irish law, we must have authority from our shareholders to issue any shares, including shares that are part of the Company’s authorized but unissued share capital. In addition, unless otherwise authorized by its shareholders, when an Irish company issues shares for cash to new shareholders, it is required first to offer those shares on the same or more favorable terms to existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis. If we are unable to obtain these authorizations from our shareholders or are otherwise limited by the terms of our authorizations, our ability to issue shares or otherwise raise capital could be adversely affected. Dividends received by our shareholders may be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax. In certain circumstances, we are required to deduct Irish dividend withholding tax (currently at the rate of 25%) from dividends paid to our shareholders. In the majority of cases, shareholders resident in the United States will not be subject to Irish withholding tax, and shareholders resident in a number of other countries will not be subject to Irish withholding tax provided that they complete certain Irish dividend withholding tax forms. However, some shareholders may be subject to withholding tax, which could have an adverse impact on the price of our shares. Dividends received by our shareholders could be subject to Irish income tax. Dividends paid in respect of our shares will generally not be subject to Irish income tax where the beneficial owner of these dividends is exempt from dividend withholding tax, unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with Ireland other than his or her shareholding in Trane Technologies plc. Our shareholders who receive their dividends subject to Irish dividend withholding tax will generally have no further liability to Irish income tax on the dividends unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with Ireland other than his or her shareholding in Trane Technologies plc.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed under Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following section is qualified in its entirety by the more detailed information, including our financial statements and the notes thereto, which appears elsewhere in this Annual Report. This section discusses 2023 and 2022 significant items affecting our consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity and provides a year-to-year comparison between 2023 and 2022. Discussions of 2021 significant items and year-to-year comparisons between 2022 and 2021 have been excluded in this Form 10-K and can be found in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for year ended December 31, 2022. Overview Organizational Trane Technologies plc is a global climate innovator. We bring sustainable and efficient solutions to buildings, homes and transportation through our strategic brands, Trane ® and Thermo King ® , and our environmentally responsible portfolio of products, services and connected intelligent controls. 2030 Sustainability Commitments Our commitment to sustainability extends to the environmental and social impacts of our people, operations, products and services. We have announced ambitious 2030 Sustainability Commitments, including our Gigaton Challenge to reduce customers' carbon emissions by a billion metric tons. We are one of a handful of companies whose emissions reductions targets have been validated three times by the SBTi, and one of the very few companies worldwide and first in our industry whose net-zero targets have also been validated. Our emissions reduction commitments align with the Paris Climate Accord net-zero targets, consistent with limiting global temperature rise to no more than 1.5 °C. Our 2030 Sustainability Commitments for scopes 1, 2, and 3 will guide our emissions reduction efforts through 2030, with an emphasis on reducing our largest source: the emissions generated from customer use of our products. We are Leading by Example as we make progress toward carbon-neutral operations and zero waste-to-landfill across our global footprint and net positive water use in water-stressed locations. Our Opportunity for All commitment focuses on gender parity in leadership, workforce diversity reflective of our communities, and a citizenship strategy that helps underserved communities through enhanced learning environments and pathways to green and Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) careers. Recent Acquisitions On May 2, 2023, we completed the acquisition of MTA S.p.A (MTA), a leading industrial process cooling technology business, which brings complementary, high-performing solutions to the comprehensive Commercial HVAC product and services portfolio. The results of the acquisition are reported within the EMEA and Americas segments. On May 12, 2023, we completed the acquisition of Helmer Scientific Inc (Helmer), a precision temperature cooling company in the life sciences vertical. The results of the acquisition are reported within the Americas segment. On November 2, 2023, we completed the acquisition of Nuvolo Technologies Corporation (Nuvolo), a global leader in modern, cloud-based enterprise asset management and connected workplace software and solutions. The results of the acquisition are reported within the Americas segment. Significant Events Reorganization of Aldrich and Murray On June 18, 2020 (Petition Date), our indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, Aldrich and Murray each filed a voluntary petition for reorganization under the Bankruptcy Code. As a result of the Chapter 11 filings, all asbestos-related lawsuits against Aldrich and Murray have been stayed due to the imposition of a statutory automatic stay applicable in Chapter 11 bankruptcy cases. Only Aldrich and Murray have filed for Chapter 11 relief. Neither Aldrich's wholly-owned subsidiary, 200 Park, Murray's wholly-owned subsidiary, ClimateLabs, nor the Trane Companies are part of the Chapter 11 filings. 30 The goal of these Chapter 11 filings is to resolve equitably and permanently all current and future asbestos-related claims in a manner beneficial to claimants, Aldrich and Murray through court approval of a plan of reorganization that would create a trust pursuant to section 524(g) of the Bankruptcy Code, establish claims resolution procedures for all current and future asbestos-related claims against Aldrich and Murray and channel such claims to the trust for resolution in accordance with those procedures. Aldrich and its wholly-owned subsidiary 200 Park and Murray and its wholly-owned subsidiary ClimateLabs were deconsolidated as of the Petition Date and their respective assets and liabilities were derecognized from our Consolidated Financial Statements. In 2021, Aldrich and Murray reached an agreement in principle with the court-appointed legal representative of future asbestos claimants (the FCR) and filed a motion to create a $270.0 million trust intended to constitute a "qualified settlement fund" within the meaning of the Treasury Regulations under Section 468B of the Internal Revenue Code (QSF). On January 27, 2022, the Bankruptcy Court granted the request to fund the QSF, which was funded on March 2, 2022, resulting in an operating cash outflow of $270.0 million reported in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, of which $91.8 million was allocated to continuing operations and $178.2 million was allocated to discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2022. On April 6, 2023, certain individual claimants filed a motion to dismiss the Chapter 11 cases. Subsequently, on May 15, 2023, the committee representing current asbestos claimants (the ACC) filed its own motion to dismiss the Chapter 11 cases. Aldrich, Murray and the FCR filed responses in opposition to each of these motions, and the Company filed papers joining in Aldrich and Murray's opposition. A hearing on the motions to dismiss was held on July 14, 2023. On December 28, 2023, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order denying the motions to dismiss the Chapter 11 cases. On January 11, 2024, the ACC and the individual claimants filed motions seeking leave to appeal the order denying the motions to dismiss and to certify the appeals directly to the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. Aldrich and Murray filed responses in opposition to these motions on January 31, 2024. It is not possible to predict how the Bankruptcy Court will rule on these pending motions, whether an appellate court will affirm or reverse the Bankruptcy Court order denying the motions to dismiss, whether the Bankruptcy Court will approve the terms of the Plan, what the extent of the asbestos liability will be or how long the Chapter 11 cases will last. The Chapter 11 cases remain pending as of February 8, 2024. For detailed information on the bankruptcy cases of Aldrich and Murray, see Part I, Item 1, "Business - Asbestos-Related Matters," Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Litigation," Part I, Item 3, "Legal Proceedings," and Part II, Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1, "Description of Company," and Note 20, "Commitments and Contingencies." Trends and Economic Events We are a global corporation with worldwide operations. As a global business, our operations are affected by worldwide, regional and industry-specific economic factors as well as political and social factors wherever we operate or do business. Our geographic diversity and the breadth of our product and services portfolios have helped mitigate the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on our consolidated operating results. Given our broad range of products manufactured and geographic markets served, management uses a variety of factors to predict the outlook for the Company. We monitor key competitors and customers in order to gauge relative performance and the outlook for the future. We regularly perform detailed evaluations of the different market segments we are serving to proactively detect trends and to adapt our strategies accordingly, including potential triggers and actions to be taken under recessionary scenarios. In addition, we believe our backlog and order levels are indicative of future revenue and thus are a key measure of anticipated performance. We expect market conditions to remain mixed across our end markets and geographies where we serve customers. Overall Commercial HVAC markets remain strong due to demand for our differentiated customer driven solutions and the benefits of installing energy efficient products and decarbonizing the built environment, aided by supportive policies and regulations especially in the United States and Europe. Transport refrigeration markets are experiencing lower demand as customers adjust to lower freight rates. Residential markets have been normalizing as lead times return to normal and distributors adjust inventory levels. We continue to see material, wage and energy inflation impact our cost structure. However, disruptions in the global supply chain and resource constraints have improved throughout the year. Our performance may be impacted by future developments that are uncertain. Geopolitical risks and macroeconomic events could cause disruptions to operations, supply chains and end markets, tightening credit conditions, higher interest rates, global banking uncertainty and the possibility of deteriorating overall economic conditions which could negatively impact our business. 31 We believe we have a solid foundation of global brands that are highly differentiated in all of our major product lines. Our geographic mix and the diversity of our portfolio, coupled with our large installed product base, provides growth opportunities from replacement demand and within our service revenue stream. In addition, we are investing substantial resources to innovate and develop new products and services which we expect to drive future growth. 32 Results of Operations Non-GAAP Financial Measures Organic Revenue We define organic revenue as net revenues adjusted for the impact of currency, acquisitions and divestitures . Organic revenue is not defined under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP) and may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures used by other companies and should not be considered a substitute for revenue as determined in accordance with GAAP. Selected references are made to revenue growth on an organic basis so that certain financial results can be viewed without the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency rates and with the impacts of acquisitions, thereby providing comparisons of operation performance from period to period of the business that we have owned during both periods presented. We believe organic revenue growth provides investors with useful supplemental information about our revenues in both periods presented. Segment Adjusted EBITDA Management measures segment operating performance based on net earnings excluding interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, restructuring, non-cash adjustment for contingent consideration, insurance settlements on  property claims, merger and acquisition related costs, impairment of an equity investment, unallocated corporate expenses and discontinued operations (Segment Adjusted EBITDA). Segment Adjusted EBITDA is not defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures used by other companies and should not be considered a substitute for net earnings or other results reported in accordance with GAAP. We believe Segment Adjusted EBITDA provides the most relevant measure of profitability as well as earnings power and the ability to generate cash. This measure is a useful financial metric to assess our operating performance from period to period by excluding certain items that we believe are not representative of our core business and we use this measure for business planning purposes. Segment Adjusted EBITDA also provides a useful tool for assessing the comparability between periods and our ability to generate cash, service debt and undertake capital expenditures because it eliminates non-cash charges such as depreciation and amortization expense. Year Ended December 31, 2023 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2022 - Consolidated Results 33 Net Revenues Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2023 increased by 10.5%, or $1,685.9 million, compared with the same period of 2022. The components of the period change were as follows: (1) Represents a non-GAAP measure. For more information, see "Non-GAAP Financial Measures." The increase in Net revenues was primarily driven by realization of inflation-based price increases, higher volumes driven by increased end-customer demand within all our reportable segments and incremental revenue from acquisitions, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation. Refer to “Results by Segment” below for a discussion of Net revenues by segment. Gross Profit Margin Gross profit margin for the year ended December 31, 2023 increased 210 basis points to 33.1% compared to 31.0% for the same period of 2022 primarily due to price realization and gross productivity, partially offset by inflation and business reinvestment. Selling and Administrative Expenses Selling and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2023 increased by 16.4%, or $417.3 million, compared with the same period of 2022. The increase in Selling and administrative expenses was primarily driven by an increase in human capital costs related to investing in our people, higher sales commissions and merger and acquisition costs, including additional headcount, amortization of intangibles and transaction driven costs. Selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2023 increased 80 basis points from 15.9% to 16.7%. Interest Expense Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2023 increased by 4.9% or $11.0 million compared with the same period of 2022 primarily due to the issuance of $700.0 million of 5.250% senior notes due March 2033 and interest costs associated with commercial paper issued during the period, partially offset by the redemption of $700.0 million of 4.250% senior notes due June 2023. We had no commercial paper outstanding as of December 31, 2023. Provision for Income Taxes The 2023 effective tax rate was 19.4% which was lower than the U.S. Statutory rate of 21% due to a net $30.3 million reduction in valuation allowances primarily related to deferred tax assets associated with both foreign tax credits and operations of international subsidiaries.  Additional items that impact the effective tax rate are excess tax benefits from employee share-based payments and earnings in non-U.S. jurisdictions, which in aggregate have a lower effective tax rate offset by an impairment of an equity investment, which is currently nondeductible, and U.S. state and local taxes. Revenues from non-U.S. jurisdictions accounted for approximately 28% of our total 2023 revenues, such that a material portion of our pretax income was earned and taxed outside the U.S. at rates ranging from 0% to 38%. When comparing the results of multiple reporting periods, among other factors, the mix of earnings between U.S. and foreign jurisdictions can cause variability in our overall effective tax rate. The 2022 effective tax rate was 17.3% which was lower than the U.S. Statutory rate of 21% due to a $48.2 million reduction in valuation allowances primarily related to certain net state deferred tax assets resulting from U.S. legal entity restructurings and deferred tax assets associated with foreign tax credits as a result of an increase in the current year amount of creditable foreign source income. Additional tax benefits included in the 2022 effective rate are $12.4 million, net related to the effects of a prepayment of an intercompany obligation in 2021, excess tax benefits from employee share-based payments and earnings in non-U.S. jurisdictions, which in aggregate have a lower effective tax rate. These amounts were partially offset by U.S. state and local taxes and certain non-deductible employee expenses. Revenues from non-U.S. jurisdictions accounted for approximately 28% of our total 2022 revenues, such that a material portion of our pretax income was earned and taxed outside the U.S. at rates ranging from 0% to 38%. 34 On December 18, 2023, Ireland enacted legislation related to the 15% minimum tax element of the OECD’s tax reform initiative, commonly referred to as “Pillar Two," effective January 1, 2024. We are continuing to evaluate the potential impacts of proposed and enacted legislative changes as new guidance becomes available. The legislation does not impact our 2023 effective tax rate; however, we anticipate it will increase our effective tax rate beginning in 2024. Year Ended December 31, 2023 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2022 - Segment Results We operate under four regional operating segments designed to create deep customer focus and relevance in markets around the world. The Company determined that its two Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) operating segments meet the aggregation criteria based on similar operating and economic characteristics, resulting in one reportable segment. Therefore, the Company has three regional reportable segments, Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific. In January 2024, we aligned our operating segments with our three regional reportable segments. • Our Americas segment innovates for customers in North America and Latin America. The Americas segment encompasses commercial heating, cooling and ventilation systems, building controls and solutions, and energy services and solutions; residential heating and cooling; and transport refrigeration systems and solutions. • Our EMEA segment innovates for customers in the Europe, Middle East and Africa region. The EMEA segment encompasses heating, cooling and ventilation systems, services and solutions for commercial buildings, and transport refrigeration systems and solutions. • Our Asia Pacific segment innovates for customers throughout the Asia Pacific region. The Asia Pacific segment encompasses heating, cooling and ventilation systems, services and solutions for commercial buildings and transport refrigeration systems and solutions. The following discussion compares our results for each of our three reportable segments for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. 35 Americas Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2023 increased by 9.4% or $1,191.2 million, compared with the same period of 2022. The components of the period change were as follows: (1) Represents a non-GAAP measure. For more information, see "Non-GAAP Financial Measures." The increase in organic revenue was primarily driven by the realization of inflation-based price increases and higher volumes led by strong demand for both equipment and services within our Commercial HVAC business, partially offset by the normalization of markets within our Residential business and the softening of transport markets. The increase in revenue from acquisitions includes a Commercial HVAC independent dealer acquired in April 2022, MTA and Helmer which were acquired in May 2023, and Nuvolo which was acquired in November 2023. Together these acquisitions increased Net revenues in our Americas segment by 1.0% compared to the corresponding prior-year period. Segment Adjusted EBITDA margin for the year ended December 31, 2023 increased by 90 basis points to 19.3% compared to 18.4% for the same period of 2022 primarily due to price realization and gross productivity, partially offset by inflation and business reinvestment. EMEA Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2023 increased by 18.0% or $366.7 million, compared with the same period of 2022. The components of the period change were as follows: (1) Represents a non-GAAP measure.  For more information, see "Non-GAAP Financial Measures." The increase in organic revenue was primarily driven by the realization of inflation-based price increases and higher volumes led by strong demand for both equipment and services within our Commercial HVAC business. The increase in revenue from acquisitions includes AL-KO Air Technology (AL-KO) which was acquired in October 2022 and MTA which was acquired in May 2023. Together these acquisitions increased Net revenues in our EMEA segment by 8.4% compared to the corresponding prior-year period. Segment Adjusted EBITDA margin for the year ended December 31, 2023 increased by 280 basis points to 19.4% compared to 16.6% for the same period of 2022 primarily due to price realization, gross productivity and higher volumes, partially offset by inflation, lower margin attribution from recent acquisitions, inclusive of integration costs, and continued business reinvestment. 36 Asia Pacific Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2023 increased by 9.7% or $128.0 million, compared with the same period of 2022. The components of the period change were as follows: (1) Represents a non-GAAP measure. For more information, see "Non-GAAP Financial Measures." The increase in organic revenue was primarily driven by higher volumes related to increased end-customer demand and the realization of inflation-based price increases for both equipment and services within our Commercial HVAC business. In October 2022, we acquired AL-KO, which increased Net revenues i n our Asia Pacific segment by 2.9% compared to the prior-year period. Segment Adjusted EBITDA margin for the year ended December 31, 2023 increased by 330 basis points to 22.2% compared to 18.9% for the same period of 2022 primarily due to price realization, higher volumes and gross productivity, partially offset by lower margin attribution from the recent acquisition, inclusive of integration costs, and continued business reinvestment. Liquidity and Capital Resources We assess our liquidity in terms of our ability to generate cash to fund our operating, investing and financing activities. In doing so, we review and analyze our current cash on hand, the number of days our sales are outstanding, inventory turns, capital expenditure commitments and income tax payments. Our cash requirements primarily consist of the following: • Funding of working capital • Debt service requirements • Funding of capital expenditures • Dividend payments • Funding of acquisitions, joint ventures and equity investments • Share repurchases Our primary sources of liquidity include cash balances on hand, cash flows from operations, proceeds from debt offerings, commercial paper, and borrowing availability under our existing credit facilities. We earn a significant amount of our operating income in jurisdictions where it is deemed to be permanently reinvested. Our most prominent jurisdiction of operation is the U.S. We expect existing cash and cash equivalents available to the U.S. operations, the cash generated by our U.S. operations, our committed credit lines as well as our expected ability to access the capital and debt markets will be sufficient to fund our U.S. operating and capital needs for at least the next twelve months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. In addition, we expect existing non-U.S. cash and cash equivalents and the cash generated by our non-U.S. operations will be sufficient to fund our non-U.S. operating and capital needs for at least the next twelve months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. The maximum aggregate amount of unsecured commercial paper notes available to be issued, on a private placement basis, under the commercial paper program is $2.0 billion, of which we had no outstanding balance as of December 31, 2023. As of December 31, 2023, we had $1,095.3 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand, of which $949.0 million was held by non-U.S. subsidiaries. Cash and cash equivalents held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries are generally available for use in our U.S. operations via intercompany loans, equity infusions or via distributions from direct or indirectly owned non-U.S. subsidiaries for which we do not assert permanent reinvestment. As a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in 2017, additional repatriation opportunities to access cash and cash equivalents held by non-U.S. subsidiaries have been created. In general, repatriation of cash to the U.S. can be completed with no significant incremental U.S. tax. However, to the extent that we repatriate funds from non-U.S. subsidiaries for which we assert permanent reinvestment to fund our U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue and pay applicable non-U.S. taxes. As of December 31, 2023, we currently have no plans to repatriate funds from subsidiaries for which we assert permanent reinvestment. 37 Share repurchases are made from time to time in accordance with management's balanced capital allocation strategy, subject to market conditions and regulatory requirements. In February 2022, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $3.0 billion of our ordinary shares (2022 Authorization) upon the completion of our $2.0 billion ordinary share repurchase program authorized in 2021 (2021 Authorization). During the year ended December 31, 2023, we repurchased and canceled approximately $669 million of ordinary shares, completing the 2021 Authorization and initiating repurchases under the 2022 Authorization of approximately $469 million of our ordinary shares, leaving $2.5 billion remaining under the 2022 Authorization. Additionally, through January 31, 2024, we repurchased approximately $81 million of our ordinary shares under the 2022 Authorization. We expect to pay a competitive and growing dividend. Since the launch of Trane Technologies in March 2020, we have increased our quarterly share dividend by 42%, from $0.53 to $0.75 per ordinary share, or $2.12 to $3.00 per share annualized. All four 2023 quarterly dividends were paid during the year ended December 31, 2023. In February 2024, our Board of Directors declared an increase in our quarterly share dividend by 12%, from $0.75 to $0.84 per ordinary share, or $3.00 to $3.36 per share annualized starting in the first quarter of 2024. We continue to actively manage and strengthen our business portfolio to meet the current and future needs of our customers. We achieve this partly through engaging in research and development and sustaining activities and partly through acquisitions. Sustaining activities include costs incurred to reduce production costs, improve existing products, create custom solutions for customers and provide support to our manufacturing facilities. Our research and development and sustaining costs account for approximately two percent of annual Net revenues. Each year, we make investments in new product development and new technology innovation as they are key factors in achieving our strategic objectives as a leader in the climate sector. In addition, we make investments in technology and business for our operational sustainability programs. In pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate targets and enter into agreements regarding possible acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures and equity investments. Since 2020, we acquired several businesses, entered into joint ventures and invested in companies that complement existing products and services further enhancing our product portfolio. During the years ended December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, we deployed capital of approximately $881 million and $256 million, respectively, attributable to acquisitions and equity investments. We incur costs associated with restructuring initiatives intended to result in improved operating performance, profitability and working capital levels. Actions associated with these initiatives may include workforce reductions, improving manufacturing productivity, realignment of management structures and rationalizing certain assets. Post separation, we have exceeded our goal of $300 million in total annual savings under our transformation initiatives through December 31, 2023. In order to achieve these cost savings, we incurred approximately $134 million of costs cumulatively through December 31, 2023. We believe that our existing cash flow, committed credit lines and access to the capital markets will be sufficient to fund share repurchases, dividends, research and development, sustaining activities, business portfolio changes and ongoing restructuring actions. Certain of our subsidiaries entered into Funding Agreements with Aldrich and Murray pursuant to which those subsidiaries are obligated, among other things, to pay the costs and expenses of Aldrich and Murray during the pendency of the Chapter 11 cases to the extent distributions from their respective subsidiaries are insufficient to do so and to provide an amount for the funding for a trust established pursuant to section 524(g) of the Bankruptcy Code, to the extent that the other assets of Aldrich and Murray are insufficient to provide the requisite trust funding. During the third quarter of 2021, Aldrich and Murray filed a motion with the Bankruptcy Court to create a $270.0 million QSF. The funds held in the QSF would be available to provide funding for the Section 524(g) Trust upon effectiveness of the Plan. On January 27, 2022, the Bankruptcy Court granted the request to fund the QSF, which was funded on March 2, 2022. 38 Liquidity The following table contains several key measures of our financial condition and liquidity at the periods ended December 31: Debt and Credit Facilities As of December 31, 2023, our short-term obligations primarily consist of current maturities of $499.4 million of long-term debt that matures in November 2024 and $295.0 million of fixed rate debentures that contain a put feature that the holders may exercise on each anniversary of the issuance date. If exercised, we are obligated to repay in whole or in part, at the holder’s option, the outstanding principal amount (plus accrued and unpaid interest) of the debentures held by the holder. In November 2023, we paid $45.8 million of principal to holders who elected to exercise their put options. Holders who had the option to exercise puts up to $37.2 million for settlement in February 2024 did not exercise such option. Holders will have the option to exercise puts up to $257.8 million for settlement in November 2024. We also maintain a commercial paper program which is used for general corporate purposes. Under the program, the maximum aggregate amount of unsecured commercial paper notes available to be issued, on a private placement basis, is $2.0 billion as of December 31, 2023. We had no commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022. See Note 7, "Debt and Credit Facilities", to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the terms of our short-term obligations. Our long-term obligations primarily consist of long-term debt with final maturity dates ranging between 2025 and 2049. In addition, we maintain two $1.0 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facilities, one of which matures in June 2026 and the other which matures in April 2027. The facilities provide support for our commercial paper program and can be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes. Total commitments of $2.0 billion were unused at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022. See Note 7, "Debt and Credit Facilities", to the Consolidated Financial Statements and further below in Supplemental Guarantor Financial Information for additional information regarding the terms of our long-term obligations and their related guarantees. 39 Cash Flows The following table reflects the major categories of cash flows for the years ended December 31, respectively. For additional details, please see the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Operating Activities Net cash provided by continuing operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2023 was $2,426.8 million, of which net income provided $2,499.6 million after adjusting for non-cash transactions. Net cash provided by continuing operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $1,698.7 million, of which net income provided $2,248.8 million after adjusting for non-cash transactions. The year-over-year increase in net cash from continuing operating activities was primarily due to higher net earnings and improved cash conversion cycle. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2022, we funded the continuing operations component of the QSF for $91.8 million and made a compensation related payment to a retired executive. Investing Activities Cash flows from investing activities represents inflows and outflows regarding the purchase and sale of assets. Primary activities associated with these items include capital expenditures, proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment, acquisitions, investments in joint ventures and divestitures. During the year ended December 31, 2023, net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $1,172.2 million. The primary drivers of the usage was attributable to acquisition of businesses, which totaled $862.8 million, net of cash acquired, and capital expenditures of $300.7 million. During the year ended December 31, 2022, net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $539.8 million. The primary drivers of the usage was attributable to capital expenditures of $291.8 million and acquisition of businesses, which totaled $234.7 million, net of cash acquired. Financing Activities Cash flows from financing activities represent inflows and outflows that account for external activities affecting equity and debt. Primary activities associated with these actions include paying dividends to shareholders, repurchasing our own shares, issuing our stock and debt transactions. During the year ended December 31, 2023, net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $1,350.3 million. The primary drivers of the outflow related to dividends paid to ordinary shareholders of $683.7 million and the repurchase of $669.3 million in ordinary shares. In addition, we received $699.1 million in proceeds from the issuance of 5.250% senior notes due March 2033 which was offset by the redemption of $700.0 million of senior notes due June 2023. During the year ended December 31, 2022, net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $1,852.2 million. The primary drivers of the outflow related to the repurchase of $1,200.2 million in ordinary shares and dividends paid to ordinary shareholders of $620.2 million. 40 Free Cash Flow Free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure and defined as Net cash provided by (used in) continuing operating activities adjusted for capital expenditures, cash payments for restructuring, transformation costs, merger and acquisition (M&A) related costs, the continuing operations component of the QSF funding and payout of executive compensation less insurance settlements on property claims. This measure is useful to management and investors because it is consistent with management's assessment of our operating cash flow performance. The most comparable GAAP measure to free cash flow is Net cash provided by (used in) continuing operating activities . Free cash flow may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures used by other companies and should not be considered a substitute for Net cash provided by (used in) continuing operating activities in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of Net cash provided by (used in) continuing operating activities to free cash flow the years ended December 31 is as follows: (1) Represents a non-GAAP measure. Pension Plans Our investment objective in managing defined benefit plan assets is to ensure that all present and future benefit obligations are met as they come due. We seek to achieve this goal while trying to mitigate volatility in plan funded status, contribution and expense by better matching the characteristics of the plan assets to that of the plan liabilities. Our approach to asset allocation is to increase fixed income assets as the plan's funded status improves. We monitor plan funded status and asset allocation regularly in addition to investment manager performance. In addition, we monitor the impact of market conditions on our defined benefit plans on a regular basis. None of our defined benefit pension plans have experienced a significant impact on their liquidity due to market volatility. See Note 11, "Pension and Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions", to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding pensions. Capital Resources Based on historical performance and current expectations, we believe our cash and cash equivalents balance, the cash generated from our operations, our committed credit lines and our expected ability to access capital markets, including our commercial paper program, will satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures, dividends, share repurchases, upcoming debt maturities, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for the foreseeable future. Capital expenditures were $300.7 million, $291.8 million and $223.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Our investments continue to improve manufacturing productivity, reduce costs, provide environmental enhancements, upgrade information technology infrastructure and security and advanced technologies for existing facilities. The capital expenditure program for 2024 is estimated to be approximately 2.5% of revenues, including amounts approved in prior periods. Many of these projects are subject to review and cancellation at our option without incurring substantial charges. For financial market risk impacting the Company, see Part II, Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk." 41 Capitalization Financing rates and conditions associated with future borrowings under our commercial paper program or term debt offerings will be affected by general financing conditions and our credit ratings. On April 4, 2023, Moody's announced that it upgraded our long-term credit rating from Baa2 to Baa1 and put the Company on positive outlook. On August 18, 2023, Standard and Poor's announced that it upgraded our long-term credit rating from BBB to BBB+. As of December 31, 2023, our credit ratings were as follows: The credit ratings set forth above are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal by the assigning rating organization. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Our public debt does not contain financial covenants and our revolving credit lines have a debt-to-total capital covenant of 65%. As of December 31, 2023, our debt-to-total capital ratio was significantly beneath this limit. Contractual Obligations Our contractual cash obligations include required payments of long-term debt principal and interest, purchase obligations and expected obligations under our pension and postretirement benefit plans. In addition, we have required payments of operating leases, income taxes and expected obligations under the Funding agreement, environmental and product liability matters. For additional information regarding leases, income taxes, including unrecognized tax benefits, and contingent liabilities, see Note 10 "Leases", Note 16 "Income Taxes" and Note 20 "Commitments and Contingencies", respectively, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our material cash requirements include the following contractual and other obligations. Debt At December 31, 2023, we had outstanding aggregate long-term debt principal payments of $4,809.8 million, with $802.5 million payable within 12 months. The amount payable within 12 months includes $295.0 million of debt redeemable at the option of the holder. The scheduled maturities of these bonds range between 2027 and 2028. Future interest payments on long-term debt total $2,324.5 million, with $218.2 million payable within 12 months. See Note 7, "Debt and Credit Facilities", to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding debt. Purchase Obligations Purchase obligations include commitments under legally enforceable contracts or purchase orders. At December 31, 2023, we had purchase obligations of $1,096.1 million, which are primarily payable within 12 months. Pensions It is our objective to contribute to the pension plans to ensure adequate funds are available in the plans to make benefit payments to plan participants and beneficiaries when required. We currently expect that we will contribute approximately $61 million to our enterprise plans worldwide in 2024. The timing and amounts of future contributions are dependent upon the funding status of the plan, which is expected to vary as a result of changes in interest rates, returns on underlying assets, and other factors. See Note 11, "Pensions and Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions", to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding pensions. Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions We fund postretirement benefit costs principally on a pay-as-you-go basis as medical costs are incurred by covered retiree populations. Benefit payments, which are net of expected plan participant contributions and Medicare Part D subsidy, are expected to be approximately $30 million in 2024. See Note 11, "Pensions and Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions", to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding postretirement benefits other than pensions. 42 Supplemental Guarantor Financial Information Trane Technologies plc (Plc or Parent Company) and certain of its 100% directly or indirectly owned subsidiaries provide guarantees of public debt issued by other 100% directly or indirectly owned subsidiaries of Plc. The following table shows our guarantor relationships as of December 31, 2023: (1) On November 20, 2023, Trane Technologies Global Holding Company Limited (TT Global) merged into TT International, an Irish private limited company. (2) Entity is a newly formed Delaware Corporation and was formed on November 3, 2023. (3) TT Americas, formally known as Trane Grid Services LLC, was renamed and redomiciled as a Delaware Corporation. Each subsidiary debt issuer and guarantor is owned 100% directly or indirectly by the Parent Company. Each guarantee is full and unconditional, and provided on a joint and several basis. There are no significant restrictions of the Parent Company, or any guarantor, to obtain funds from its subsidiaries, such as provisions in debt agreements that prohibit dividend payments, loans or advances to the parent by a subsidiary. The following tables present summarized financial information for the Parent Company and subsidiary debt issuers and guarantors on a combined basis (together, "obligor group") after elimination of intercompany transactions and balances based on the Company’s legal entity ownerships and guarantees outstanding at December 31, 2023. Our obligor groups as of December 31, 2023 were as follows: Obligor group 1 consists of Plc, TT Holdings, TT International, TT Global II, TT Americas, TTFL, TTC HoldCo and TTC; Obligor group 2 consists of Plc, TTFL and TTC. 43 Summarized Statements of Earnings Summarized Balance Sheet Critical Accounting Estimates Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with those accounting principles requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. These estimates and assumptions have a significant effect on reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenue and expenses as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities because they result primarily from the need to make estimates and assumptions on matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results may differ from these estimates. If updated information or actual amounts are different from previous estimates, the revisions are included in our results for the period in which they become known. The following is a summary of certain accounting estimates and assumptions made by management that we consider critical. • Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets – We have significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet related to acquisitions. These assets are tested and reviewed annually during the fourth quarter for impairment or when there is a significant change in events or circumstances that indicate that the fair value of an asset is more likely than not less than the carrying amount of the asset. In addition, an interim impairment test is completed upon a triggering event or when there is a reorganization of reporting structure or disposal of all or a portion of a reporting unit. The determination of estimated fair value requires us to make assumptions about estimated cash flows, including profit margins, long-term forecasts, discount rates and terminal growth rates. We developed these assumptions based on the market and geographic risks unique to each reporting unit. The estimates of fair value are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment, which primarily incorporates management assumptions about expected future cash flows. Annual Goodwill Impairment Test Impairment of goodwill is tested at the reporting unit level. The test compares the carrying amount of the reporting unit to its estimated fair value. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the 44 reporting unit is not impaired. To the extent that the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, an impairment loss would be recognized for the amount by which the reporting unit's carrying amount exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill in that reporting unit. As quoted market prices are not available for our reporting units, the calculation of their estimated fair value is determined using three valuation techniques: a discounted cash flow model (an income approach), a market-adjusted multiple of earnings and revenues (a market approach), and a similar transactions method (also a market approach). The discounted cash flow approach relies on our estimates of future cash flows and explicitly addresses factors such as timing, growth and margins, with due consideration given to forecasting risk. The multiple of earnings and revenues approach reflects the market's expectations for future growth and risk, with adjustments to account for differences between the guideline publicly traded companies and the subject reporting units. The similar transactions method considers prices paid in transactions that have recently occurred in our industry or in related industries. These valuation techniques are weighted 50%, 40% and 10%, respectively. Under the income approach, we assumed a forecasted cash flow period of five years with discount rates ranging from 10.0% to 12.5% and a terminal growth rate of 3.0%. Under the guideline public company method, we used an adjusted multiple ranging from 10.0 to 17.0 of projected earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) based on the market information of comparable companies. Additionally, we compared the estimated aggregate fair value of our reporting units to our overall market capitalization. For all reporting units, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) exceeded 250%. A significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on the estimated fair value of these reporting units. Other Indefinite-lived intangible assets Other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment on an annual basis. The fair value of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives is determined on a relief from royalty methodology (income approach) which is based on the implied royalty paid, at an appropriate discount rate, to license the use of an asset rather than owning the asset. The present value of the after-tax cost savings (i.e., royalty relief) indicates the estimated fair value of the asset. Any excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value would be recognized as an impairment loss equal to that excess. In testing our other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, we assumed forecasted revenues for a period of five years with discount rates ranging from 10.0% to 15.0%, terminal growth rates of 3.0%, and royalty rates ranging from 0.5% to 4.5%. For all indefinite-lived intangible assets, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) exceeded 35%. A significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, decrease in the royalty rate or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on the estimated fair values of any of our tradenames. • Business combinations - Acquisitions that meet the definition of a business combination are recorded using the acquisition method of accounting. We include the operating results of acquired entities from their respective dates of acquisition. We recognize and measure the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed, including contingent consideration relating to potential earnout provisions and any non-controlling interest as of the acquisition date fair value. The valuation of intangible assets is determined using an income approach methodology. We use assumptions to value the intangible assets including projected cash flows, including revenue growth rates and margins, customer attrition rates, royalty rates, tax rates and discount rates. The excess, if any, of total consideration transferred in a business combination over the fair value of identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and any non-controlling interest is recognized as goodwill. Costs incurred as a result of a business combination other than costs related to the issuance of debt or equity securities are recorded in the period the costs are incurred. Contingent consideration We assess any contingent consideration included in the consideration paid of a business combination. The value recorded is based on estimates of future financial projections on revenue under various potential scenarios, in which a Monte Carlo simulation model runs many iterations based on comparable companies' revenue growth rates and their implied revenue volatilities. These cash flow projections are discounted with a risk adjusted rate. Each quarter until such contingent amounts are earned, the fair value of the liability is remeasured at each reporting period and adjusted as a component of operating expenses based on changes to the underlying assumptions. The estimates used to determine the fair value of the contingent consideration liability are subject to significant judgment, specifically revenue growth rates, implied revenue volatilities and discount rates. 45 • Asbestos matters – Prior to the Petition Date, certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and former companies were named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. We recorded a liability for our actual and anticipated future claims as well as an asset for anticipated insurance settlements. We performed a detailed analysis and projected an estimated range of the total liability for pending and unasserted future asbestos-related claims. We recorded the liability at the low end of the range as we believed that no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount. Our key assumptions underlying the estimated asbestos-related liabilities included the number of people occupationally exposed and likely to develop asbestos-related diseases such as mesothelioma and lung cancer, the number of people likely to file an asbestos-related personal injury claim against us, the average settlement and resolution of each claim and the percentage of claims resolved with no payment. Asbestos-related defense costs were excluded from the asbestos claims liability and were recorded separately as services were incurred. None of our existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. We recorded certain income and expenses associated with our asbestos liabilities and corresponding insurance recoveries within Discontinued operations, net of tax , as they related to previously divested businesses, except for amounts associated with asbestos liabilities and corresponding insurance recoveries of Murray and its predecessors, which were recorded within continuing operations. • Revenue recognition – Revenue is recognized when control of a good or service promised in a contract (i.e., performance obligation) is transferred to a customer. Control is obtained when a customer has the ability to direct the use of and obtain substantially all of the remaining benefits from that good or service. A majority of our revenues are recognized at a point-in-time as control is transferred at a distinct point in time per the terms of a contract. However, a portion of our revenues are recognized over time as the customer simultaneously receives control as we perform work under a contract. For these arrangements, the cost-to-cost input method is used as it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer that occurs as we incur costs. The transaction price allocated to performance obligations reflects our expectations about the consideration we will be entitled to receive from a customer. To determine the transaction price, variable and non-cash consideration are assessed as well as whether a significant financing component exists. We include variable consideration in the estimated transaction price when it is probable that significant reversal of revenue recognized would not occur when the uncertainty associated with variable consideration is subsequently resolved. We consider historical data in determining our best estimates of variable consideration, and the related accruals are recorded using the expected value method. We enter into sales arrangements that contain multiple goods and services. For these arrangements, each good or service is evaluated to determine whether it represents a distinct performance obligation and whether the sales price for each obligation is representative of standalone selling price. If available, we utilize observable prices for goods or services sold separately to similar customers in similar circumstances to evaluate relative standalone selling price. List prices are used if they are determined to be representative of standalone selling prices. Where necessary, we ensure that the total transaction price is then allocated to the distinct performance obligations based on the determination of their relative standalone selling price at the inception of the arrangement. We recognize revenue for delivered goods or services when the delivered good or service is distinct, control of the good or service has transferred to the customer, and only customary refund or return rights related to the goods or services exist. For extended warranties and long-term service agreements, revenue for these distinct performance obligations are recognized over time on a straight-line basis over the respective contract term. • Income taxes – Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. We recognize future tax benefits, such as net operating losses and tax credits, to the extent that realizing these benefits is considered in our judgment to be more likely than not. We regularly review the recoverability of our deferred tax assets considering our historic profitability, projected future taxable income, timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and the feasibility of our tax planning strategies. Where appropriate, we record a valuation allowance with respect to a future tax benefit. The provision for income taxes involves a significant amount of management judgment regarding interpretation of relevant facts and laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Future changes in applicable laws, projected levels of taxable income, and tax planning could change the effective tax rate and tax balances recorded by us. In addition, tax authorities periodically review income tax returns filed by us and can raise issues regarding our filing positions, timing and amount of income or deductions, and the allocation of income among the jurisdictions in which we operate. A significant period of time may elapse between the filing of an income tax return and the ultimate resolution of an issue raised by a revenue authority with respect to that return. We believe that we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable resolution of these matters. We will adjust our estimate if significant events so dictate. To the extent that the ultimate results differ from our original or adjusted estimates, the effect will be recorded in the provision for income taxes in the period that the matter is finally resolved. 46 • Employee benefit plans – We provide a range of benefits to eligible employees and retirees, including pensions, postretirement and postemployment benefits. Determining the cost associated with such benefits is dependent on various actuarial assumptions including discount rates, expected return on plan assets, compensation increases, mortality, turnover rates and healthcare cost trend rates. Actuarial valuations are performed to determine expense in accordance with GAAP. Actual results may differ from the actuarial assumptions and are generally accumulated and amortized into earnings over future periods. We review our actuarial assumptions at each measurement date and make modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends, if appropriate. The discount rate, the rate of compensation increase and the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets are determined as of each measurement date. We believe that the assumptions utilized in recording our obligations under our plans are reasonable based on input from our actuaries, outside investment advisors and information as to assumptions used by plan sponsors. Changes in any of the assumptions can have an impact on the net periodic pension cost or postretirement benefit cost. Estimated sensitivities to the expected 2023 net periodic pension cost of a 0.25% rate decline in the two basic assumptions are as follows: the decline in the discount rate would increase expense by $0.5 million and the decline in the estimated return on assets would increase expense by $5.2 million. A 0.25% rate decrease in the discount rate for postretirement benefits would increase expected 2023 net periodic postretirement benefit cost by $0.3 million. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.