********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. The risks discussed below are those that we believe currently are the most significant to our business. Aerospace and Defense Industry Risks Demand for our aircraft products is cyclical and lower demand adversely affects our financial results. Demand for business jets, turbo props and commercial helicopters has been cyclical and difficult to forecast. The demand for our aircraft products has been adversely impacted by unexpected events and may be impacted by such events in the future. Therefore, future demand for these products could be significantly and unexpectedly less than anticipated and/or less than previous period deliveries. Similarly, there is uncertainty as to when or whether our existing commercial backlog for aircraft products will convert to revenues as the conversion depends on production capacity, customer needs and credit availability, among other factors. Changes in economic conditions have in the past caused, and in the future may cause, customers to request that firm orders be rescheduled, deferred or cancelled. Reduced demand for our aircraft products or delays or cancellations of orders previously has had and, in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. We have customer concentration with the U.S. Government; reduction in U.S. Government defense spending can adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. During 2023, we derived approximately 21% of our revenues from sales to a variety of U.S. Government entities.  Our revenues from the U.S. Government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various U.S. Government defense-related programs. Considerable uncertainty exists regarding how future budget and program decisions will develop. We cannot predict the impact on existing, follow-on or future programs from changes in the threat environment, defense spending levels, government priorities, political leadership, procurement practices, inflation and other macroeconomic trends, military strategy, or broader societal changes. Significant changes in national and international priorities for defense spending could affect the funding, or the timing of funding, of our programs, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. The funding of U.S. Government defense programs is subject to congressional appropriation decisions and the U.S. Government budget process which includes enacting relevant legislation, such as appropriations bills and accords on the debt ceiling. Although multiple-year contracts may be planned in connection with major procurements, Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. Consequently, programs often are only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. Further uncertainty with respect to ongoing programs could also result in the event that the U.S. Government finances its operations through temporary funding measures such as “continuing resolutions” rather than full-year appropriations or if a government shutdown were to occur and were to continue for an extended period of time. If we incur costs in advance or in excess of funds committed on a contract, we are at risk for non-reimbursement of those costs until additional funds are appropriated.  The reduction, termination or delay in the timing of funding for U.S. Government programs for which we currently provide or propose to provide products or services from time to time has resulted and, in the future, may result in a loss of anticipated revenues. A loss of such revenues could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, because our U.S. Government contracts generally require us to continue to perform even if the U.S. Government is unable to make timely payments, we may need to finance our continued performance for the impacted contracts from our other resources on an interim basis.  An extended delay in the timely payment by the U.S. Government could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. U.S. Government contracts can be terminated at any time and may contain other unfavorable provisions. The U.S. Government typically can terminate or modify any of its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. In the event of termination for the U.S. Government’s convenience, contractors are generally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. A termination arising out of our default for failure to perform could expose us to liability, including but not limited to, all costs incurred under the contract plus potential liability for re-procurement costs in excess of the total original contract amount, less the value of work performed and accepted by the customer under the contract. Such an event could also have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. If any of our contracts are terminated by the U.S. Government whether for convenience or default, our backlog would be reduced by the expected value of the remaining work under such contracts. We also enter into “fee for service” contracts with the U.S. Government where we retain ownership of, and consequently the risk of loss on, aircraft and equipment 9 supplied to perform under these contracts. Termination of these contracts could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. On contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the U.S. Government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our products and services as a subcontractor. In addition, in the event that the U.S. Government is unable to make timely payments, failure to continue contract performance places the contractor at risk of termination for default. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. As a U.S. Government contractor, we are subject to procurement rules and regulations; our failure to comply with these rules and regulations could adversely affect our business. We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts. These laws and regulations, among other things, require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiation, define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. Government contracts, and safeguard and restrict the use and dissemination of classified information, covered defense information, and the exportation of certain products and technical data. New laws, regulations or procurement requirements or changes to current ones (including, for example, regulations related to cybersecurity) can significantly increase our costs, reducing our profitability. Our failure to comply with procurement regulations and requirements could allow the U.S. Government to suspend or debar us from receiving new contracts for a period of time, reduce the value of existing contracts, issue modifications to a contract, withhold cash on contract payments, and control and potentially prohibit the export of our products, services and associated materials, any of which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. A number of our U.S. Government contracts contain provisions that require us to make disclosure to the Inspector General of the agency that is our customer if we have credible evidence that we have violated U.S. criminal laws involving fraud, conflict of interest, or bribery; the U.S. civil False Claims Act; or received a significant overpayment under a U.S. Government contract. Failure to properly and timely make disclosures under these provisions may result in a termination for default or cause, suspension and/or debarment, and potential fines. As a U.S. Government contractor, our businesses and systems are subject to audit and review by the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) and the Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA). We operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the U.S. Government and its agencies such as the DCAA and DCMA. These agencies review our performance under contracts, our cost structure and our compliance with laws and regulations applicable to U.S. Government contractors. The systems that are subject to review include, but are not limited to, our accounting, estimating, material management and accounting, earned value management, purchasing and government property systems. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions that may include the termination of our contracts, forfeiture or reduction of profits, suspension or reduction of payments, fines, and, under certain circumstances, suspension or debarment from future contracts for a period of time. Whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the U.S. Government also has the ability to decrease or withhold certain payments when it deems systems subject to its review to be inadequate.  These laws and regulations affect how we conduct business with our government customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. Our profitability and cash flow varies depending on the mix of our government contracts and our ability to control costs . Under fixed-price contracts, generally we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur, and, consequently, we absorb any costs in excess of the fixed price. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates used in developing the pricing for such contracts can adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, fixed-price contracts generally require progress payments rather than performance-based payments which can delay our ability to recover a significant amount of costs incurred on a contract and thus affect the timing of our cash flows. Under fixed-price incentive contracts, we share with the U.S. Government cost underrun savings, which are derived from total cost being less than target costs; we also share in cost overruns, which occur when total costs exceed target costs up to a negotiated cost ceiling; however, we are solely responsible for costs above the ceiling. Under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. Under cost-reimbursement contracts that are subject to a contract-ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance-based; however, if our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs.  Due to the nature of our work under government contracts, we sometimes experience unforeseen technological or schedule difficulties and cost overruns due to inflation, labor shortages, supply chain challenges and/or other factors. Under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs or if our initial cost estimates are incorrect, our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Cost overruns also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards. 10 The market for U.S. Government defense business is highly competitive, and the competitive bidding process increases pricing pressure and cost which may affect our ability to win new contracts for major government programs. Our defense businesses operate in highly competitive markets in which they participate in rigorous, increasingly competitive bidding processes against other defense companies for U.S. government business. The U.S. Government relies upon competitive contract award types, including indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity, other transaction agreements and multi-award contracts, which often create increased pricing pressure and increase our cost by requiring that we submit multiple bids or share in costs. In addition, multi-award contracts increase our cost as they require that we make sustained efforts to compete for task orders and delivery orders under the contract. Further, the competitive bidding process is costly, in some instances requires significant research and development and/or engineering efforts to participate and demands employee and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us or may be split among competitors. Despite our best efforts, the U.S. Government customer sometimes chooses competitor's offerings over our offerings and there can be no assurance that our businesses will be selected for government programs with significant long-term revenues. Even if we are successful in obtaining an award, we have in the past and may in the future encounter bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. Bid protests could result in significant expenses associated with justifying the selection or due to potential program delays and could result in contract modifications that alter schedule or scope or even cause the loss of the contract award. Even when a bid protest does not result in the loss of a contract award, the resolution could postpone commencement of contract activity, resulting in additional cost and delay in the recognition of revenue and profit. If we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, do not win government programs with significant long-term revenues or do not prevail in bid protests, we may experience declines in future revenues and profitability, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Strategic Risks Developing new products and technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties. To continue to grow our revenues and segment profit, we must successfully develop new products and technologies or modify our existing products and technologies for our current and future markets. Our future performance depends, in part, on our ability to identify emerging technological trends and customer requirements and to develop and maintain competitive products and services. Delays or cost overruns in the development and acceptance of new products or certification of new aircraft and other products occur from time to time and could adversely affect our results of operations. These delays or cost overruns could be caused by unanticipated technological hurdles, production changes to meet customer demands, unanticipated difficulties in obtaining required regulatory certifications of new aircraft or other products, or failure on the part of our suppliers to deliver components as agreed. We also could be adversely affected if our research and development efforts are less successful than expected or if these efforts require significantly more funding to achieve our goals than anticipated. In particular, the success of Textron eAviation depends in large part, on our ability to develop and certify new electric and hybrid electric aircraft products in order to achieve our long-term strategy of offering a family of sustainable aircraft for urban air mobility, general aviation, cargo and special mission roles. In addition, new products and technologies could generate unanticipated safety or other concerns resulting in expanded product liability risks, potential product recalls and other regulatory issues that could have an adverse impact on us. Furthermore, because of the lengthy research and development cycle involved in bringing certain of our products to market, we cannot predict the economic conditions that will exist when any new product is complete, and the market for our product offerings does not always develop or continue to expand as we anticipate. A reduction in capital spending in the aerospace or defense industries could have a significant effect on the demand for new products and technologies under development, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our investments in equipment or technology that we believe will enable us to obtain future contracts for our U.S. Government or other customers may not result in contracts or revenues sufficient to offset such investment.  We cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain superior market acceptance compared to our products.  A significant failure in our new product development efforts, a substantial change to schedule, a material change in an anticipated market or the failure of our products or services to achieve customer acceptance relative to our competitors’ products or services, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have made and may continue to make acquisitions that increase the risks of our business. We enter into acquisitions with the intention of expanding our business and enhancing shareholder value. Acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties that, in some cases, have resulted, and, in the future, could result in our not achieving expected benefits.  Such risks include difficulties in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner; challenges in achieving expected strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits; the risk that the acquired businesses’ markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the acquired businesses’ products and technologies do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; the risk that our due diligence reviews of the acquired business do not identify or adequately assess all of the material issues which impact valuation of the business or result in costs or liabilities in excess of what we anticipated; the risk that we pay a purchase price that exceeds what the future results of operations would have merited; the risk 11 that the acquired business may have significant internal control deficiencies or exposure to regulatory sanctions; and the potential loss of key customers, suppliers and employees of the acquired businesses. Business and Operational Risks Risks arising from uncertainty in global macroeconomic conditions may harm our business. We are sensitive to global macroeconomic conditions. Negative macroeconomic factors may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as on our distributors, customers and suppliers, and on activity in many of the industries and markets we serve. We cannot predict changes in worldwide or regional economic or political conditions and government policies as such factors are highly volatile and beyond our control. If current macroeconomic pressures, including from inflation and labor and supply chain challenges, continue or if global macroeconomic conditions deteriorate and remain at depressed levels for extended periods, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our business could be negatively impacted by cybersecurity threats and other disruptions. Our information technology (IT) and related systems are critical to the efficient operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day to day processes. As a U.S. defense contractor, we face persistent security threats, including threats to our IT infrastructure and unlawful attempts to gain access to our information via phishing/malware campaigns and other cyberattack methods, as well as threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, as do our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and joint venture partners. Attempts to gain unauthorized access to our confidential, classified or otherwise proprietary information or that of our employees or customers, as well as other security breaches, are persistent, continue to evolve and require highly skilled IT resources. While we have experienced cybersecurity attacks, such attacks have not resulted in a material information security breach and we have not suffered any material losses relating to such attacks. Due to the evolving nature of security threats, the possibility of future material incidents cannot be completely mitigated, and we may not always be successful in timely detecting, reporting or responding to cyber incidents. Future attacks or breaches of data security, whether of our systems or the systems of our service providers or other third parties who may have access to our data for business purposes, could disrupt our operations, cause the loss of business information or compromise confidential information, exposing us to liability or regulatory action. Such an incident also could require significant management attention and resources, increase costs that may not be covered by insurance, and result in reputational damage, potentially adversely affecting our competitiveness and our results of operations. Products and services that we provide to our customers may themselves be subject to cyberthreats which may not be detected or effectively mitigated, resulting in potential losses that could adversely affect us and our customers. In addition, our customers, including the U.S. Government, are increasingly requiring cybersecurity protections and mandating cybersecurity standards in our products, and we may incur additional costs to comply with such demands. Challenges faced by our subcontractors or suppliers could materially and adversely affect our performance. We rely on other companies to provide raw materials, major components and subsystems for our products. Subcontractors also perform services that we provide to our customers in certain circumstances. We depend on these suppliers and subcontractors to meet our contractual obligations to our customers and conduct our operations. Our ability to meet our obligations to our customers could be adversely affected if suppliers or subcontractors do not provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services in compliance with customer requirements and in a timely and cost-effective manner. Likewise, the quality of our products could be adversely impacted if companies to whom we delegate manufacture of major components or subsystems for our products, or from whom we acquire such items, do not provide components or subsystems which meet required specifications and perform to our and our customers’ expectations. Our businesses are experiencing and may continue to experience manufacturing inefficiencies and production delays as a result of shortages and delays of critical components for our products and other issues related to our direct or indirect suppliers. Suppliers may be unable to quickly recover from natural disasters, acts of war, and other events beyond their control and may be subject to additional risks such as material or labor shortages, inflationary conditions or other financial problems that limit their ability to conduct their operations, resulting in their inability to perform as anticipated. As a result, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, cost increases for certain materials and components which, along with increased energy and shipping costs and other inflationary pressures, have negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, our profitability. The risk of these adverse effects would likely be greater in circumstances where we rely on only one or two subcontractors or suppliers for a particular raw material, product or service. In particular, in the aircraft industry, most vendor parts are certified by the regulatory agencies as part of the overall Type Certificate for the aircraft being produced by the manufacturer. If a vendor does not or cannot supply its parts, then the manufacturer’s production line may be stopped until the manufacturer can design, manufacture and certify a similar part itself or identify and certify another similar vendor’s part, resulting in significant delays in the completion of aircraft. Such events may adversely affect our financial results, damage our reputation and relationships with our customers, and result in regulatory actions and/or litigation. 12 We are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries that could adversely impact our business. During 2023, we derived approximately 32% of our revenues from international business, including U.S. exports. Conducting business internationally exposes us to additional risks than if we conducted our business solely within the U.S. We maintain manufacturing facilities, service centers, supply centers and other facilities worldwide, including in various emerging market countries. Risks related to international operations include import, export, economic sanctions and other trade restrictions; changing U.S. and foreign procurement policies and practices; changes in international trade policies, including higher tariffs on imported goods and materials and renegotiation of free trade agreements; potential retaliatory tariffs imposed by foreign countries against U.S. goods; impacts on our non-U.S. suppliers and customers due to acts of war or terrorism occurring internationally; restrictions on technology transfer; difficulties in protecting intellectual property; increasing complexity of employment and environmental, health and safety regulations; foreign investment laws; exchange controls; repatriation of earnings or cash settlement challenges; compliance with increasingly rigorous data privacy and protection laws; competition from foreign and multinational firms with home country advantages; economic and government instability; acts of industrial espionage, acts of war and terrorism and related safety concerns. The impact of any one or more of these or other factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Additionally, some international government customers require contractors to agree to specific in-country purchases, technology transfers, manufacturing agreements or financial support arrangements, known as offsets, as a condition for a contract award. These contracts generally extend over several years and may include penalties if we fail to perform in accordance with the offset requirements which are often subjective. We also are exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations and teaming with international subcontractors and suppliers in connection with international programs. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we maintain policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, a violation of such laws by any of our international representatives, consultants, joint ventures, business partners, subcontractors or suppliers, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. Natural disasters or other events outside of our control have disrupted and may in the future disrupt our operations, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and may not be fully covered by insurance. Natural disasters, including hurricanes, fires, tornados, floods and other forms of severe weather, the intensity and frequency of which are being exacerbated by climate change, along with other impacts of climate change, such as rising sea waters, as well as other events outside of our control including public health crises, pandemics, power outages and industrial accidents, have in the past and could in the future disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business. Any of these events could result in physical damage to and/or complete or partial closure of one or more of our facilities and temporary or long-term disruption of our operations or the operations of our suppliers by causing business interruptions or by impacting the availability and cost of materials needed for manufacturing or otherwise impacting our ability to deliver products and services to our customers. Existing insurance arrangements may not provide full protection for the costs that may arise from such events. The occurrence of any of these events could materially increase our costs and expenses and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Financial Risks If our Finance segment has difficulty collecting on its finance receivables, our financial performance could be adversely affected. The financial performance of our Finance segment depends on the quality of loans, leases and other assets in its portfolio. Portfolio quality can be adversely affected by several factors, including finance receivable underwriting procedures, collateral value, geographic or industry concentrations, and the effect of general economic conditions. In addition, a substantial number of the originations in our finance receivable portfolio are cross-border transactions for aircraft sold outside of the U.S. Cross-border transactions present additional challenges and risks in the event of borrower default, which can result in difficulty or delay in collecting on the related finance receivables. If our Finance segment has difficulty successfully collecting on its finance receivable portfolio, our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We periodically need to obtain financing and such financing may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. We periodically need to obtain financing in order to meet our debt obligations as they come due, to support our operations and/or to make acquisitions. Our access to the debt capital markets and the cost of borrowings are affected by a number of factors including market conditions and the strength of our credit ratings. If we cannot obtain adequate sources of credit on favorable terms, or at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. 13 Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and various non-U.S. jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the location of income among these different jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings indefinitely reinvested offshore, changes to unrecognized tax benefits or changes in tax laws, which could affect our profitability. In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income, as well as changes to applicable statutory tax rates. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a tax authority could affect our profitability. Risks Related to Regulatory, Legal and Other Matters We are subject to increasing compliance risks that could adversely affect our operating results. As a global business, we are subject to laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate. International sales and global operations require importing and exporting goods, software and technology, some of which have military applications subjecting them to more stringent import-export controls across international borders on a regular basis. For example, we sometimes initially must obtain licenses and authorizations from various U.S. Government agencies before we are permitted to sell certain of our aerospace and defense products outside the U.S., and we are not always successful in obtaining these licenses or authorizations in a timely manner. Both U.S. and foreign laws and regulations applicable to us have been increasing in scope and complexity. For example, both U.S. and foreign governments and government agencies regulate the aviation industry, and they have previously and may in the future impose new regulations for additional aircraft security or other requirements or restrictions. New or changing laws and regulations or related interpretation and policies could increase our costs of doing business, affect how we conduct our operations, adversely impact demand for our products, and/or limit our ability to sell our products and services. Compliance with laws and regulations of increasing scope and complexity is even more challenging in our business environment in which reducing our operating costs is often necessary to remain competitive. In addition, a violation of U.S. and/or foreign laws by one of our employees or business partners could subject us or our employees to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions, such as denial of import or export privileges and/or debarment as a government contractor which could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our business. Certain of our products are subject to laws regulating consumer products and could be subject to repurchase or recall as a result of safety issues. As a distributor of consumer products in the U.S., certain of our products are subject to the Consumer Product Safety Act, which empowers the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) to exclude from the market products that are found to be unsafe or hazardous. Under certain circumstances, the CPSC has in the past and could require in the future us to repair, replace or refund the purchase price of one or more of our products, or potentially even discontinue entire product lines. We also may voluntarily take such action and, from time to time, have done so, but within strictures recommended by the CPSC. The CPSC also can impose fines or penalties on a manufacturer for non-compliance with its requirements. Furthermore, failure to timely notify the CPSC of a potential safety hazard can result in significant fines being assessed against us. Any repurchases or recalls of our products or an imposition of fines or penalties could be costly to us and could damage the reputation or the value of our brands. Additionally, laws regulating certain consumer products exist in some states, as well as in other countries in which we sell our products, and more restrictive laws and regulations could be adopted in the future. Increased regulation and stakeholder expectations related to global climate change could negatively affect our operating results. Increased worldwide public awareness and concern regarding global climate change has resulted and is likely to continue to result in more legislative and regulatory efforts to address the negative impacts of climate change. Such laws and regulations are likely to include more prescriptive reporting on environmental metrics, climate change related risks and associated financial impacts, as well as increased oversight of and reporting on our supply chain and other compliance requirements. Stricter limits on greenhouse gas emissions generated by our facilities or by our products that produce carbon emissions could also be imposed. We expect that compliance with such laws and regulations will require additional internal resources and may necessitate larger investment in product development and manufacturing equipment and/or facilities, as well as sourcing from new suppliers and/or higher costs from existing suppliers, all of which would increase our direct and indirect costs and negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position. Our failure to adequately comply with such laws and regulations could jeopardize our ability to receive contract awards from the U.S. government and other customers. Moreover, our investors, customers, employees and other stakeholders increasingly expect us to reduce greenhouse gas emissions generated by our operations by implementing more efficient manufacturing technologies and increasing the amount of renewable energy used within our facilities. While we are engaged in efforts to transition to a lower carbon economy by reducing the emissions generated by our operations and increasing our use of renewable energy, these efforts take time and resources and may increase our energy acquisition and other costs and require capital investment. In addition, our stakeholders expect us to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the use of our products, including by developing and incorporating sustainable technologies into 14 our products. We expect that most of our businesses will require significant research and development investment to succeed in developing the new technologies and products that will enable us to significantly reduce such emissions from the use of our products and successfully compete in a lower carbon economy.  We may not realize the anticipated benefits of our investments and actions for a variety of reasons, including technological challenges, evolving government and customer requirements and our ability to anticipate them and develop the desired technologies and products on a timely basis. Our competitors may develop these technologies and products before we do and they may be deemed by our customers to be superior to technologies and products we may develop, and they may otherwise gain industry acceptance in advance of, or instead of, our products. In addition, as we and our competitors develop increasingly sustainable technologies, demand for our existing offerings may decrease or become nonexistent. We are subject to legal proceedings and other claims. We are subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising out of the conduct of our business, including proceedings and claims relating to commercial and financial transactions; government contracts; alleged lack of compliance with applicable laws and regulations; disputes with suppliers, production partners or other third parties; product liability; patent and trademark infringement; employment disputes; and environmental, safety and health matters. Due to the nature of our manufacturing business, we are regularly subject to liability claims arising from accidents involving our products, including claims for serious personal injuries or death caused by weather or by pilot, driver or user error. In the case of litigation matters for which reserves have not been established because the loss is not deemed probable, it is reasonably possible that such claims could be decided against us and could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures in amounts that are not presently estimable. In addition, we cannot be certain that our reserves are adequate and that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more substantial claims. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage at acceptable levels and costs in the future. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and we could incur judgments, receive adverse arbitration awards or enter into settlements for current or future claims that could adversely affect our results of operations in any particular period. Intellectual property infringement claims of others and the inability to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our customers. Intellectual property infringement claims are, from time to time, asserted by third parties against us or our customers. Any related indemnification payments or legal costs we are obliged to pay on behalf of our businesses, our customers or other third parties can be costly.  Infringement claims also have resulted in legal restrictions on our businesses engaging in sales of allegedly infringing products. If such a restriction were imposed upon a material product line, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted.  In addition, we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names, trade names and trade secrets that are important to our business. Our inability to enforce these intellectual property rights could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, our intellectual property could be at risk due to cybersecurity threats. Risks Related to Human Capital Our success is highly dependent on our ability to hire and retain a qualified workforce. Our success is highly dependent upon our ability to hire and retain a workforce with the skills necessary for our businesses to develop and manufacture the products desired by our customers. We need highly skilled personnel in multiple areas including, among others, engineering, manufacturing, information technology, cybersecurity, flight operations, business development and strategy and management. Because many of our businesses experience cyclical market demand, they face challenges in maintaining their workforce at levels aligned with market demand which in the past has necessitated workforce reductions at some of our businesses as demand decreased. Conversely, our businesses sometimes need to increase the size of their workforce in order to keep pace with production needs due to increased customer demand. Furthermore, for our defense businesses the uncertainty of being awarded follow-on contracts and the related timing can also present difficulties in matching workforce size with contract needs. Such challenges in aligning the size of our businesses’ workforces with current or future business needs have resulted and may, in the future result in increased costs, production delays or other adverse impacts on our business and results of operations. In addition, from time to time we face challenges that may impact employee retention, such as workforce reductions and facility consolidations and closures, and some of our most experienced employees are retirement-eligible which may adversely impact retention. To the extent that we lose experienced personnel through retirement or otherwise, it is critical for us to develop other employees, hire new qualified employees and successfully manage the transfer of critical knowledge. Competition for skilled employees is intense, and we may incur higher labor, recruiting and/or training costs in order to attract and retain employees with the requisite skills. We may not be successful in hiring or retaining such employees which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. 15 The increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect our results. Our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted by increasing costs and funding requirements related to our employee benefit plans. The obligation for our defined benefit pension plans is driven by, among other things, our assumptions of the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the discount rate used for future payment obligations. Additionally, as part of our annual evaluation of these plans, significant changes in our assumptions, due to changes in economic, legislative and/or demographic experience or circumstances, or changes in our actual investment returns could negatively impact the funded status of our plans requiring us to substantially increase our pension liability with a resulting decrease in shareholders’ equity. Also, changes in pension legislation and regulations could increase the cost associated with our defined benefit pension plans. Our business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages and other labor issues. Approximately 7,400, or 27%, of our U.S. employees are unionized, and many of our non-U.S. employees are represented by organized councils. As a result, from time to time we experience work stoppages, which can negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, resulting in strain on our relationships with our customers, loss or delay of revenues and/or increased cost. The presence of unions also may limit our flexibility in responding to competitive pressures in the marketplace. In addition, the workforces of many of our suppliers and customers are represented by labor unions. Work stoppages or strikes at the plants of our key suppliers could disrupt our manufacturing processes; similar actions at the plants of our customers could result in delayed or canceled orders for our products. Any of these events could adversely affect our results of operations.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Overview In 2023, Textron’s revenues increased 6%, compared with 2022, reflecting the impact of higher pricing, principally at the Textron Aviation, Industrial and Bell segments, and higher volume and mix at the Industrial segment. Segment profit increased 17%, compared with 2022, largely due to higher pricing, net of inflation at the Textron Aviation and Industrial segments. Our backlog increased 5% in 2023 to $13.9 billion, which included a $782 million increase at the Textron Aviation segment. During 2023, we continued to manage through the impacts of ongoing global supply chain shortages/delays and labor shortages to deliver products to our customers. Financial highlights for 2023 also include: • Generated $1.3 billion of net cash from operating activities from our manufacturing businesses. • Invested $570 million in research and development projects and $402 million in capital expenditures. • Returned $1.2 billion to our shareholders through the repurchase of 16.2 million shares of our common stock. For an overview of our business segments, including a discussion of our major products and services, refer to Item 1. Business. A discussion of our financial condition and operating results for 2023 compared with 2022 is provided below, while a discussion of 2022 compared with 2021 can be found in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. Beginning in 2023, we changed how we measure our segment profit for the manufacturing segments, as discussed in the Segment Analysis section below. As a result of this change, the prior periods have been recast to conform to this presentation. The impact of the change in the segment profit measure on the narrative discussion of fluctuations in segment profit provided in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 was insignificant. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Consolidated Results of Operations Revenues Revenues increased $814 million, 6%, in 2023, compared with 2022. The revenue increase primarily included the following factors: • Higher Industrial revenues of $376 million due to higher volume and mix of $280 million across both product lines and a favorable impact from pricing of $99 million. • Higher Textron Aviation revenues of $300 million, reflecting higher pricing of $335 million, partially offset by lower volume and mix of $35 million. • Higher Textron Systems revenues of $63 million, primarily due to higher volume of $44 million. • Higher Bell revenues of $56 million, reflecting higher pricing of $68 million, partially offset by lower volume and mix of $12 million. Cost of Sales and Selling and Administrative Expense Cost of sales includes cost of products and services sold for the Manufacturing group. In 2023, cost of sales increased $605 million, 6%, compared with 2022, largely due to the impact of higher net volume and mix described above, and $257 million of inflation. Gross margin as a percentage of Manufacturing revenues increased 60 basis points in 2023, compared with 2022, largely due to higher margins at the Industrial, Bell and Textron Aviation segments. 20 Selling and administrative expense increased $39 million, 3%, in 2023, compared with 2022, primarily reflecting higher share-based compensation expense and $27 million of inflation, largely in labor costs, partially offset by a $17 million recovery of amounts that were previously written off related to one customer relationship at the Finance segment. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net includes interest expense for both the Finance and Manufacturing borrowing groups, with interest on intercompany borrowings eliminated, and interest income earned on cash and equivalents for the Manufacturing borrowing group. In 2023, interest expense, net decreased $30 million, 28%, compared with 2022, primarily due to an increase in interest income of $34 million.  For 2023, 2022 and 2021, gross interest expense totaled $133 million, $129 million and $142 million, respectively. Special Charges Special charges include restructuring activities and asset impairment charges as described in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Non-service Components of Pension and Postretirement Income, Net Non-service components of pension and postretirement income, net decreased by $3 million, 1%, in 2023, compared with 2022. Income Taxes In 2023 and 2022, the effective tax rate of 15.2% was lower than the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%, largely due to the favorable impact of research and development credits and tax deductions for foreign-derived intangible income. For a full reconciliation of our effective tax rate to the U.S. federal statutory tax rate, see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Segment Analysis We conduct our business through six operating segments: Textron Aviation, Bell, Textron Systems, Industrial, Textron eAviation and Finance. Segment profit is an important measure used for evaluating performance and for decision-making purposes. Beginning in 2023, we changed how we measure our segment profit for the manufacturing segments to exclude the non-service components of pension and postretirement income, net; LIFO inventory provision; and intangible asset amortization. This measure also continues to exclude interest expense, net for Manufacturing group; certain corporate expenses; gains/losses on major business dispositions; and special charges. The prior periods have been recast to conform to this presentation. The measurement for the Finance segment includes interest income and expense along with intercompany interest income and expense. Operating expenses for the Manufacturing segments include cost of sales and selling and administrative expense, while excluding certain corporate expenses, LIFO inventory provision, intangible asset amortization and special charges. In our discussion of comparative results for the Manufacturing group, changes in revenues and segment profit for our commercial businesses typically are expressed in terms of volume and mix, pricing, foreign exchange, acquisitions and dispositions, inflation and performance. For revenues, volume and mix represents changes in revenues from increases or decreases in the number of units delivered or services provided and the composition of products and/or services sold. For segment profit, volume and mix represents a change due to the number of units delivered or services provided and the composition of products and/or services sold at different profit margins. Pricing represents changes in unit pricing. Foreign exchange is the change resulting from translating foreign-denominated amounts into U.S. dollars at exchange rates that are different from the prior period. Revenues generated by acquired businesses are reflected in Acquisitions for a twelve-month period, while reductions in revenues and segment profit from the sale of businesses are reflected as Dispositions. Inflation represents higher material, wages, benefits, pension service cost or other costs. Performance reflects an increase or decrease in research and development, depreciation, selling and administrative costs, warranty, product liability, quality/scrap, labor efficiency, overhead, product line profitability, start-up, ramp up and cost-reduction initiatives or other manufacturing inputs. Approximately 21% of our 2023 revenues were derived from contracts with the U.S. Government, including those under the U.S. Government-sponsored foreign military sales program.  For our segments that contract with the U.S. Government, changes in revenues related to these contracts are expressed in terms of volume. Changes in segment profit for these contracts are typically expressed in terms of volume and mix and performance; these include cumulative catch-up adjustments associated with a) revisions to the transaction price that may reflect contract modifications or changes in assumptions related to award fees and other variable consideration or b) changes in the total estimated costs at completion due to improved or deteriorated operating performance. 21 Textron Aviation Textron Aviation Revenues and Operating Expenses Factors contributing to the 2023 year-over-year revenue change are provided below: Textron Aviation’s revenues increased $300 million, 6%, in 2023, compared with 2022, reflecting higher pricing of $335 million, partially offset by lower volume and mix of $35 million. Volume and mix included lower Citation jet and pre-owned volume, partially offset by higher defense, aftermarket, commercial turboprop and other aircraft volume. We delivered 168 Citation jets and 153 commercial turboprops in 2023, compared with 178 Citation jets and 146 commercial turboprops in 2022. Textron Aviation’s operating expenses increased $211 million, 5%, in 2023, compared with 2022, largely reflecting inflation of $176 million. Textron Aviation Segment Profit Factors contributing to 2023 year-over-year segment profit change are provided below: Textron Aviation’s segment profit increased $89 million, 16%, in 2023, compared with 2022, due to favorable pricing, net of inflation of $159 million and a favorable impact from the mix of products and services sold, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from performance of $79 million, largely related to supply chain and labor inefficiencies. Textron Aviation Backlog Textron Aviation’s backlog increased $782 million in 2023, reflecting orders in excess of deliveries. 22 Bell A significant portion of Bell’s military aircraft and support program revenues has been from the U.S. Government for the V-22 tiltrotor aircraft and the H-1 helicopter platforms. Under current contracts, production of the V-22 tiltrotor aircraft is expected to end with final deliveries in the next two years after which this program will transition to the support stage. For the H-1 helicopter, final deliveries under the current contract are expected to be completed in early 2024, fully transitioning this platform to the support stage.  In December 2022, Bell was awarded the development contract for the U.S. Army's FLRAA program, which has begun to represent an increasing portion of Bell’s military aircraft and support program revenues. Bell Revenues and Operating Expenses Factors contributing to the 2023 year-over-year revenue change are provided below: Bell’s revenues increased $56 million, 2%, in 2023, compared with 2022, reflecting higher pricing of $68 million, partially offset by lower volume and mix of $12 million.  Volume and mix included lower military volume of $39 million, as higher volume from the FLRAA program was more than offset by lower volume on the V-22 and H-1 programs. Commercial volume and mix increased $27 million, reflecting a favorable mix as we delivered 171 commercial helicopters in 2023, compared with 179 commercial helicopters in 2022. Bell’s operating expenses increased $18 million, 1%, in 2023, compared with 2022, primarily due to inflation of $55 million and higher operating expenses due to the mix of products and services sold, partially offset by lower research and development costs described below. Bell Segment Profit Factors contributing to 2023 year-over-year segment profit change are provided below: Bell’s segment profit increased $38 million, 13%, in 2023, compared with 2022, largely reflecting a favorable impact from performance of $74 million, which included $84 million of lower research and development costs, partially offset by lower volume and mix described above. 23 Textron Systems Textron Systems Revenues and Operating Expenses Factors contributing to the 2023 year-over-year revenue change are provided below: Revenues at Textron Systems increased $63 million, 5%, in 2023, compared with 2022, primarily due to higher volume and mix, which was principally related to weapons products. Textron Systems’ operating expenses increased $48 million, 5%, in 2023, compared with 2022, largely related to higher volume and mix described above. Textron Systems Segment Profit Factors contributing to 2023 year-over-year segment profit change are provided below: Textron Systems’ segment profit increased $15 million, 11%, in 2023, compared with 2022, due to a favorable impact from performance of $10 million and higher pricing, net of inflation of $10 million, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from the mix of products and services sold. Industrial 24 Industrial Revenues and Operating Expenses Factors contributing to the 2023 year-over-year revenue change are provided below: Industrial segment revenues increased $376 million, 11%, in 2023, compared with 2022, largely due to higher volume and mix of $280 million across both product lines and a favorable impact of $99 million from pricing, principally in the Specialized Vehicles product line. Operating expenses for the Industrial segment increased $303 million, 9%, in 2023 compared with 2022, primarily reflecting  the impact of higher volume and mix described above. Industrial Segment Profit Factors contributing to 2023 year-over-year segment profit change are provided below: Segment profit for the Industrial segment increased $73 million, 47%, in 2023, compared with 2022, largely due to a favorable impact from pricing, net of inflation of $58 million, principally in the Specialized Vehicles product line, and higher volume and mix of $54 million as described above, partially offset by an unfavorable impact of $40 million from performance. Textron eAviation Textron eAviation Revenues and Operating Expenses Factors contributing to the 2023 year-over-year revenue change are provided below: Textron eAviation segment revenues increased $16 million in 2023, compared with 2022, primarily reflecting higher volume and mix. Textron eAviation's operating expenses increased $55 million in 2023, compared with 2022, primarily related to higher research and development costs. 25 Textron eAviation Segment Loss Factors contributing to 2023 year-over-year segment loss change are provided below: Textron eAviation's segment loss increased $39 million in 2023, compared with 2022, largely due to an unfavorable impact from performance and other, primarily reflecting higher research and development costs. Finance Finance segment revenues increased $3 million and segment profit increased $15 million in 2023, compared with 2022. The increase in segment profit was largely due to a $17 million recovery of amounts that were previously written off related to one customer relationship. The following table reflects information about the Finance segment’s credit performance related to finance receivables. 26 Liquidity and Capital Resources Our financings are conducted through two separate borrowing groups.  The Manufacturing group consists of Textron consolidated with its majority-owned subsidiaries that operate in the Textron Aviation, Bell, Textron Systems, Industrial and Textron eAviation segments. The Finance group, which also is the Finance segment, consists of Textron Financial Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. We designed this framework to enhance our borrowing power by separating the Finance group. Our Manufacturing group operations include the development, production and delivery of tangible products and services, while our Finance group provides financial services. Due to the fundamental differences between each borrowing group’s activities, investors, rating agencies and analysts use different measures to evaluate each group’s performance. To support those evaluations, we present balance sheet and cash flow information for each borrowing group within the Consolidated Financial Statements. Assessment of Liquidity and Significant Future Cash Requirements Key information that is utilized in assessing our liquidity is summarized below: We believe that our calculations of debt to capital and net debt to capital are useful measures as they provide a summary indication of the level of debt financing (i.e., leverage) that is in place to support our capital structure, as well as to provide an indication of our capacity to add further leverage. We expect to have sufficient cash to meet our needs based on our existing cash balances, the cash we expect to generate from our manufacturing operations and the availability of our existing credit facility. In addition to our manufacturing operating cash requirements, future material cash outlays include our contractual combined debt and interest payments for the Manufacturing group of $483 million in 2024, $467 million in 2025, $452 million in 2026 and $2.8 billion thereafter, and for the Finance Group of $32 million in 2024, $49 million in 2025, $22 million in 2026 and $613 million thereafter. For the Manufacturing Group, we also have purchase obligations that require material future cash outlays totaling $2.9 billion in 2024, $445 million in 2025 and $107 million thereafter. Purchase obligations include undiscounted amounts committed under legally enforceable contracts or purchase orders for goods and services with defined terms as to price, quantity and delivery dates, as well as property, plant and equipment. Approximately 14% of our purchase obligations represent purchase orders issued for goods and services to be delivered under firm contracts with the U.S. Government for which we have full recourse under customary contract termination clauses. Credit Facilities and Other Sources of Capital Textron has a senior unsecured revolving credit facility for an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion, of which $100 million is available for the issuance of letters of credit. We may elect to increase the aggregate amount of commitments under the facility to up to $1.3 billion by designating an additional lender or by an existing lender agreeing to increase its commitment. The facility expires in October 2027 and provides for two one-year extensions at our option with the consent of lenders representing a majority of the commitments under the facility. At December 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, there were no amounts borrowed against the facility and there were $9 million of outstanding letters of credit issued under the facility. We also maintain an effective shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission that allows us to issue an unlimited amount of public debt and other securities. In November 2023, we issued $350 million in SEC-registered fixed-rate notes due in November 2033 with an annual interest rate of 6.10%. The proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes, including the redemption or repayment of certain of our debt, including the $350 million outstanding amount of our 4.30% notes due in March 2024. 27 Manufacturing Group Cash Flows Cash flows from continuing operations for the Manufacturing group as presented in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows are summarized below: Cash flows from operating activities were $1,270 million in 2023, compared with $1,461 million from 2022, as higher earnings were more than offset by changes in working capital, reflecting an increase in inventories and lower accounts payable, partially offset by a decrease in other assets. Net income tax payments were $338 million and $332 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. Pension contributions were $45 million and $49 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. In 2023, investing cash flows included capital expenditures of $402 million, partially offset by $40 million of net proceeds from corporate-owned life insurance policies. Investing cash flows in 2022 included capital expenditures of $354 million and $202 million of net cash paid for business acquisitions, largely related to the Pipistrel acquisition. Cash flows used by financing activities in 2023 included $1,168 million of cash paid to repurchase an aggregate of 16.2 million shares of our common stock under the 2023 share repurchase plan described below, partially offset by $348 million of net proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt. In 2022, cash flows used by financing activities included $867 million of cash paid to repurchase an aggregate of 13.1 million shares of our common stock under a 2022 share repurchase plan. On July 24, 2023, Textron's Board of Directors approved a new program for the repurchase of up to 35 million shares of our common stock. This share repurchase program allows us to continue our practice of repurchasing shares to offset the impact of dilution from stock-based compensation and benefit plans and for opportunistic capital management purposes. The new program has no expiration date and replaced the prior 2022 share repurchase program, which was utilized in 2022 for repurchases. Dividend payments to shareholders totaled $16 million and $17 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. Finance Group Cash Flows The cash flows from continuing operations for the Finance group as presented in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows are summarized below: In 2023, cash flows from operating activities were $14 million, compared with cash outflows of  $7 million in 2022. The $21 million increase in cash flows was primarily due to higher earnings and $10 million in lower income tax payments. The Finance group’s cash flows from investing activities primarily included collections on finance receivables totaling $169 million and $147 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively, partially offset by finance receivable originations of $160 million and $92 million, respectively. Cash flows provided by investing activities in 2022 also included $45 million of other investing activities, largely related to proceeds from the sale of operating lease assets. Cash flows used in financing activities included payments on long-term and nonrecourse debt of $37 million and $216 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. Consolidated Cash Flows The consolidated cash flows from continuing operations, after elimination of activity between the borrowing groups, are summarized below: Consolidated cash flows from operating activities were $1,267 million in 2023, compared with $1,490 million in 2022 as higher earnings were more than offset by changes in working capital and a net cash outflow from captive finance receivables of $52 million. Working capital changes between the periods primarily reflected an increase in inventories and lower accounts payable, 28 partially offset by a decrease in other assets. Net income tax payments were $352 million and $356 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively.  Pension contributions were $45 million and $49 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. In 2023, investing cash flows included capital expenditures of $402 million, partially offset by $40 million of net proceeds from corporate-owned life insurance policies. Investing cash flows in 2022 included capital expenditures of $354 million and $202 million of net cash paid for business acquisitions, largely related to the Pipistrel acquisition. Cash flows used by financing activities in 2023 included $1,168 million of share repurchases, partially offset by $348 million of net proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt. In 2022, cash flows used by financing activities included $867 million of share repurchases and $234 million of payments on long-term debt. Captive Financing and Other Intercompany Transactions The Finance group provides financing primarily to purchasers of new and pre-owned Textron Aviation aircraft and Bell helicopters manufactured by our Manufacturing group, otherwise known as captive financing. In the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, cash received from customers is reflected as operating activities when received from third parties. However, in the cash flow information provided for the separate borrowing groups, cash flows related to captive financing activities are reflected based on the operations of each group. For example, when product is sold by our Manufacturing group to a customer and is financed by the Finance group, the origination of the finance receivable is recorded within investing activities as a cash outflow in the Finance group’s statement of cash flows. Meanwhile, in the Manufacturing group’s statement of cash flows, the cash received from the Finance group on the customer’s behalf is recorded within operating cash flows as a cash inflow. Although cash is transferred between the two borrowing groups, there is no cash transaction reported in the consolidated cash flows at the time of the original financing. These captive financing activities, along with all significant intercompany transactions, are reclassified or eliminated from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Reclassification adjustments included in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows on page 38 are summarized below: Under a Support Agreement between Textron and TFC, Textron is required to maintain a controlling interest in TFC. The agreement, as amended in December 2015, also requires Textron to ensure that TFC maintains fixed charge coverage of no less than 125% and consolidated shareholders' equity of no less than $125 million. There were no cash contributions required to be paid to TFC in 2023 and 2022 to maintain compliance with the support agreement. 29 Critical Accounting Estimates To prepare our Consolidated Financial Statements to be in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, we must make complex and subjective judgments in the selection and application of accounting policies. The accounting policies that we believe are most critical to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations are listed below. We believe these policies require our most difficult, subjective and complex judgments in estimating the effect of inherent uncertainties. This section should be read in conjunction with Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which includes other significant accounting policies. Revenue Recognition A substantial portion of our revenues is related to long-term contracts with the U.S. Government, including those under the U.S. Government-sponsored foreign military sales program, for the design, development, manufacture or modification of aerospace and defense products as well as related services. We generally use the cost-to-cost method to measure progress for these contracts because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer that occurs as we incur costs on our contracts.  Under this measure, the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the estimated costs at completion of the performance obligation, and revenue is recorded proportionally as costs are incurred. Due to the number of years it may take to complete these contracts and the scope and nature of the work required to be performed on the contracts, the estimation of total transaction price and costs at completion is complicated and subject to many variables and, accordingly, is subject to change. In estimating total costs at completion, we are required to make numerous assumptions related to the complexity of design and related development work to be performed; engineering requirements; product performance; subcontractor performance; availability and cost of materials; labor productivity, availability and cost; overhead and capital costs; manufacturing efficiencies; the length of time to complete the contract (to estimate increases in wages and prices for materials); and costs of satisfying offset obligations, among other variables. Our cost estimation process is based on the professional knowledge and experience of engineers and program managers along with finance professionals. We review and update our cost projections quarterly or more frequently when circumstances significantly change. When our estimate of the total costs to be incurred on a contract exceeds the estimated total transaction price, a provision for the entire loss is recorded in the period in which the loss is determined. At the outset of each contract, we estimate an initial profit booking rate considering the risks surrounding our ability to achieve the technical requirements (e.g., a newly developed product versus a mature product), schedule (e.g., the number and type of milestone events), and costs by contract requirements in the initial estimated costs at completion. Profit booking rates may increase during the performance of the contract if we successfully retire risks surrounding the technical, schedule and cost aspects of the contract. Conversely, the profit booking rate may decrease if we are not successful in retiring the risks; and, as a result, our estimated costs at completion increase. All estimates are subject to change during the performance of the contract and, therefore, may affect the profit booking rate. Changes in our estimate of the total expected cost or in the transaction price for a contract typically impact our profit booking rate. We utilize the cumulative catch-up method of accounting to recognize the impact of these changes on our profit booking rate for a contract. Under this method, the inception-to-date impact of a profit adjustment on a contract is recognized in the period the adjustment is identified. The impact of our cumulative catch-up adjustments on segment profit recognized in prior periods is presented below: Due to the significance of judgment in the estimation process described above, it is likely that materially different revenues and/or cost of sales amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Our earnings could be reduced by a material amount resulting in a charge to earnings if (a) total estimated contract costs are significantly higher than expected due to changes in customer specifications prior to contract amendment, (b) total estimated contract costs are significantly higher than previously estimated due to cost overruns or inflation, (c) there is a change in engineering efforts required during the development stage of the contract or (d) we are unable to meet contract milestones. 30 Goodwill We evaluate the recoverability of goodwill annually in the fourth quarter or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment of a reporting unit. We calculate the fair value of each reporting unit using discounted cash flows. These cash flows incorporate assumptions for revenue growth rates and operating margins that are based on our strategic plans and long-range planning forecasts, which include our best estimates of current and forecasted market conditions, cost structure and anticipated net cost reductions. The long-term revenue growth rate we use to determine the terminal value of the business is based on our assessment of its minimum expected terminal growth rate, as well as its past historical growth and broader economic considerations such as gross domestic product, inflation and the maturity of the markets we serve. The discount rates utilized in this analysis are based on each reporting unit’s weighted average cost of capital, which takes into account the relative weights of each component of capital structure (equity and debt) and represents the expected cost of new capital, adjusted as appropriate to consider the risk inherent in future cash flows of the respective reporting unit. We believe this approach yields a discount rate that is consistent with an implied rate of return that an independent investor or market participant would require for an investment in a company having similar risks and business characteristics to the reporting unit being assessed. Based on our annual impairment review, the fair value calculated using the estimates discussed above exceeded the carrying value by an adequate amount for each reporting group. Accordingly, we do not believe that there is a reasonable possibility that any units might fail the impairment test in the foreseeable future. Retirement Benefits We sponsor funded and unfunded domestic and international pension plans for certain of our employees. Beginning on January 1, 2010, we initiated actions to commence the closure of the pension plans to new entrants. We provide employees hired subsequent to these closures with defined contribution benefits. Our pension benefit obligations are calculated based on actuarial valuations. Key assumptions used in determining these obligations and related expenses or benefits include the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets and discount rates. We also make assumptions regarding employee demographic factors such as retirement patterns, mortality, turnover and rate of compensation increases.  We evaluate and update these assumptions annually. To determine the weighted-average expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, we consider the current and expected asset allocation, as well as historical and expected returns on each plan asset class.  A lower expected rate of return on plan assets will decrease pension income.  For 2023 and 2022, the assumed expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used in calculating pension income was 7.14% and 7.10%, respectively. For 2023, the assumed rate of return for our domestic plans, which represent approximately 90% of our total pension assets, was 7.25%. The discount rate enables us to state expected future benefit payments as a present value on the measurement date, reflecting the current rate at which the pension liabilities could be effectively settled. This rate should be in line with rates for high-quality fixed income investments available for the period to maturity of the pension benefits, which fluctuate as long-term interest rates change.  A lower discount rate increases the present value of the benefit obligations and generally decreases pension income.  In 2023, the weighted-average discount rate used in calculating pension income was 5.51%, compared with 2.99% in 2022.  For our domestic plans, the assumed discount rate was 5.55% in 2023, compared with 3.05% in 2022. A change of 50 basis-points higher or lower, with all other assumptions held constant, in this weighted-average discount rate in 2023 would have changed our pension income for our domestic plans by approximately $10 million. 31