********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. The risks discussed below are those that we believe currently are the most significant to our business. Risks Related to the COVID-19 Pandemic Our business is being adversely impacted, and is expected to continue to be adversely impacted, by the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Our businesses have experienced and continue to experience various degrees of disruption due to the unprecedented conditions surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic. The effects of COVID-19 have included and could continue to include disruption of the operation or temporary closure of certain of our facilities or the facilities of our customers, suppliers or business partners, as well as other disruptions in our supply chains or our customers’ supply chains, particularly in the supply chains serving our recreational vehicle products and in our automotive OEM supply chains, disruptions in which have caused and may continue to cause reduced demand for our automotive products. We have experienced and may continue to experience lower revenues and/or increased costs as a result of these business and production disruptions. Economic and other impacts from the pandemic initially resulted in, and could again result in, reduced demand for our aviation and commercial helicopter products and services, the delay or cancellation of existing orders by our customers and lower flight hours, and consequently, lower demand for parts and maintenance. In addition, new regulations by U.S. or foreign governments and government agencies addressed to the aviation or travel industry could impose additional regulatory, aircraft security, travel restrictions or other requirements or restrictions related to the pandemic that could adversely impact demand for aircraft and rotorcraft or significantly reduce hours flown, resulting in a reduction in revenues and/or increased costs. 9 The extent to which the pandemic could continue to impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity is highly uncertain and also will depend on future developments, most of which are outside our control. Such developments may include the geographic spread and duration of the virus, the emergence of variants of the virus that cause severe illness and/or are resistant to the developed vaccines, the development of and access to effective treatments, the acceptance of, and access to, effective vaccines, and the effects of actions that have been or may be taken by various governmental authorities and other third parties in response to the outbreak. See also risks related to our Finance Segment under Financial Risks section below. Aerospace and Defense Industry Risks Demand for our aircraft products is cyclical and lower demand adversely affects our financial results. Demand for business jets, turbo props and commercial helicopters has been cyclical and difficult to forecast. Unexpected events, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, have adversely impacted demand for our aircraft products and may continue to do so.  Therefore, future demand for these products could be significantly and unexpectedly less than anticipated and/or less than previous period deliveries. Similarly, there is uncertainty as to when or whether our existing commercial backlog for aircraft products will convert to revenues as the conversion depends on production capacity, customer needs and credit availability. Changes in economic conditions has in the past caused, and in the future may cause, customers to request that firm orders be rescheduled, deferred or cancelled. Reduced demand for our aircraft products or delays or cancellations of orders previously has had and, in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. We have customer concentration with the U.S. Government; reduction in U.S. Government defense spending can adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. During 2021, we derived approximately 26% of our revenues from sales to a variety of U.S. Government entities.  Our revenues from the U.S. Government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various U.S. Government defense-related programs. The funding of these programs is subject to congressional appropriation decisions and the U.S. Government budget process which includes enacting relevant legislation, such as appropriations bills and accords on the debt ceiling. Although multiple-year contracts may be planned in connection with major procurements, Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. Consequently, programs often are only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. Further uncertainty with respect to ongoing programs could also result in the event that the U.S. Government finances its operations through temporary funding measures such as “continuing resolutions” rather than full-year appropriations. If we incur costs in advance or in excess of funds committed on a contract, we are at risk for non-reimbursement of those costs until additional funds are appropriated.  The reduction, termination or delay in the timing of funding for U.S. Government programs for which we currently provide or propose to provide products or services from time to time has resulted and, in the future, may result in a loss of anticipated revenues. A loss of such revenues could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Significant changes in national and international policies or priorities for defense spending, as well as the potential impact of sequestration, could affect the funding, or the timing of funding, of our programs, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, because our U.S. Government contracts generally require us to continue to perform even if the U.S. Government is unable to make timely payments, we may need to finance our continued performance for the impacted contracts from our other resources on an interim basis.  An extended delay in the timely payment by the U.S. Government could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. U.S. Government contracts can be terminated at any time and may contain other unfavorable provisions. The U.S. Government typically can terminate or modify any of its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. In the event of termination for the U.S. Government’s convenience, contractors are generally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. A termination arising out of our default for failure to perform could expose us to liability, including but not limited to, all costs incurred under the contract plus potential liability for re-procurement costs in excess of the total original contract amount, less the value of work performed and accepted by the customer under the contract. Such an event could also have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. If any of our contracts are terminated by the U.S. Government whether for convenience or default, our backlog would be reduced by the expected value of the remaining work under such contracts. We also enter into “fee for service” contracts with the U.S. Government where we retain ownership of, and consequently the risk of loss on, aircraft and equipment supplied to perform under these contracts. Termination of these contracts could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. On contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the U.S. Government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our products and services as a subcontractor. In addition, in the event that the U.S. Government is unable to make timely payments, failure to continue contract performance places the contractor at risk of termination for default. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. 10 As a U.S. Government contractor, we are subject to procurement rules and regulations; our failure to comply with these rules and regulations could adversely affect our business. We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts. These laws and regulations, among other things, require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiation, define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. Government contracts, and safeguard and restrict the use and dissemination of classified information, covered defense information, and the exportation of certain products and technical data. New laws, regulations or procurement requirements or changes to current ones (including, for example, regulations related to cybersecurity) can significantly increase our costs, reducing our profitability. Our failure to comply with procurement regulations and requirements could allow the U.S. Government to suspend or debar us from receiving new contracts for a period of time, reduce the value of existing contracts, issue modifications to a contract, withhold cash on contract payments, and control and potentially prohibit the export of our products, services and associated materials, any of which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. A number of our U.S. Government contracts contain provisions that require us to make disclosure to the Inspector General of the agency that is our customer if we have credible evidence that we have violated U.S. criminal laws involving fraud, conflict of interest, or bribery; the U.S. civil False Claims Act; or received a significant overpayment under a U.S. Government contract. Failure to properly and timely make disclosures under these provisions may result in a termination for default or cause, suspension and/or debarment, and potential fines. As a U.S. Government contractor, our businesses and systems are subject to audit and review by the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) and the Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA). We operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the U.S. Government and its agencies such as the DCAA and DCMA. These agencies review our performance under contracts, our cost structure and our compliance with laws and regulations applicable to U.S. Government contractors. The systems that are subject to review include, but are not limited to, our accounting, estimating, material management and accounting, earned value management, purchasing and government property systems. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions that may include the termination of our contracts, forfeiture or reduction of profits, suspension or reduction of payments, fines, and, under certain circumstances, suspension or debarment from future contracts for a period of time. Whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the U.S. Government also has the ability to decrease or withhold certain payments when it deems systems subject to its review to be inadequate.  These laws and regulations affect how we conduct business with our government customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. The use of certain contract award types by the U.S. Government increases pricing pressure and cost. The U.S. Government increasingly relies upon competitive contract award types, including indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity, other transaction agreements and multi-award contracts, which have the potential to create increased pricing pressure, as well as to increase our cost by requiring that we submit multiple bids or share in costs. In addition, multi-award contracts increase our cost as they require that we make sustained efforts to compete for task orders and delivery orders under the contract. Further, the competitive bidding process is costly and demands employee and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us or may be split among competitors. Even if we are successful in obtaining an award, we may encounter bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. Bid protests could result in significant expenses associated with justifying the selection or due to potential program delays, and could result in contract modifications that alter schedule or scope or even cause the loss of the contract award. Even when a bid protest does not result in the loss of a contract award, the resolution could postpone commencement of contract activity, resulting in additional cost and delay in  the recognition of revenue and profit. Our profitability and cash flow varies depending on the mix of our government contracts and our ability to control costs . Under fixed-price contracts, generally we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur, and, consequently, any costs in excess of the fixed price are absorbed by us. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates used in developing the pricing for such contracts can adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, fixed-price contracts generally require progress payments rather than performance-based payments which can delay our ability to recover a significant amount of costs incurred on a contract and thus affect the timing of our cash flows. Under fixed-price incentive contracts, we share with the U.S. Government cost underrun savings, which are derived from total cost being less than target costs; we also share in cost overruns, which occur when total costs exceed target costs up to a negotiated cost ceiling, but are solely responsible for costs above the ceiling. Under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. Under cost-reimbursement contracts that are subject to a contract-ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based, however, if our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs.  Due to the nature of our work under government contracts, we sometimes experience unforeseen technological or schedule difficulties and cost overruns. Under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs or if our initial cost estimates 11 are incorrect, our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Cost overruns also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards. The market for U.S. Government defense business is highly competitive which may affect our ability to win new contracts for major government programs and result in reduced future revenues. Our defense businesses operate in highly competitive markets in which they participate in rigorous, increasingly competitive bidding processes against other defense companies for U.S. government business. The competitive bidding process is costly and, in some instances, may require significant research and development and/or engineering efforts to participate. Despite our best efforts, the U.S. Government customer may choose competitive offerings over our offerings. The competition from other government contractors, combined with the increasingly competitive nature of the government contract bidding and award process, results in an intensely competitive market environment in which there can be no assurance that our businesses will be selected for government programs with significant long-term revenues. If we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors or do not win government programs with significant long-term revenues, we may experience declines in future revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and or cash flows. Strategic Risks Developing new products and technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties. To continue to grow our revenues and segment profit, we must successfully develop new products and technologies or modify our existing products and technologies for our current and future markets. Our future performance depends, in part, on our ability to identify emerging technological trends and customer requirements and to develop and maintain competitive products and services. Delays or cost overruns in the development and acceptance of new products or certification of new aircraft and other products occur from time to time and could adversely affect our results of operations. These delays could be caused by unanticipated technological hurdles, production changes to meet customer demands, unanticipated difficulties in obtaining required regulatory certifications of new aircraft or other products, coordination with joint venture partners or failure on the part of our suppliers to deliver components as agreed. We also could be adversely affected if our research and development efforts are less successful than expected or if we do not adequately protect the intellectual property developed through these efforts. Likewise, new products and technologies could generate unanticipated safety or other concerns resulting in expanded product liability risks, potential product recalls and other regulatory issues that could have an adverse impact on us. Furthermore, because of the lengthy research and development cycle involved in bringing certain of our products to market, we cannot predict the economic conditions that will exist when any new product is complete, and the market for our product offerings does not always develop or continue to expand as we anticipate. A reduction in capital spending in the aerospace or defense industries could have a significant effect on the demand for new products and technologies under development, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our investments in equipment or technology that we believe will enable us to obtain future contracts for our U.S. Government or other customers may not result in contracts or revenues sufficient to offset such investment.  We cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain superior market acceptance compared to our products.  A significant failure in our new product development efforts, a substantial change to schedule, a material change in an anticipated market or the failure of our products or services to achieve customer acceptance relative to our competitors’ products or services, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have made and may continue to make acquisitions that increase the risks of our business. We enter into acquisitions in an effort to expand our business and enhance shareholder value. Acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties that, in some cases, have resulted, and, in the future, could result in our not achieving expected benefits.  Such risks include difficulties in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner; challenges in achieving expected strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits; the risk that the acquired businesses’ markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the acquired businesses’ products and technologies do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; the risk that our due diligence reviews of the acquired business do not identify or adequately assess all of the material issues which impact valuation of the business or result in costs or liabilities in excess of what we anticipated; the risk that we pay a purchase price that exceeds what the future results of operations would have merited; the risk that the acquired business may have significant internal control deficiencies or exposure to regulatory sanctions; and the potential loss of key customers, suppliers and employees of the acquired businesses. 12 Business and Operational Risks Our business could be negatively impacted by cybersecurity threats and other disruptions. Our information technology (IT) and related systems are critical to the efficient operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day to day processes. As a U.S. defense contractor, we face persistent security threats, including threats to our IT infrastructure and unlawful attempts to gain access to our information via phishing / malware campaigns and other cyberattack methods, as well as threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, as do our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and joint venture partners. Attempts to gain unauthorized access to our confidential, classified or otherwise proprietary information or that of our employees or customers, as well as other security breaches, are persistent, continue to evolve and require highly skilled IT resources. We maintain Information Systems Incident Management Standards applicable to all our businesses intended to ensure information security events and weaknesses associated with information systems are communicated and acted on in a timely manner. Our enterprise risk management program includes cyber risk/network protection mitigation plans, and our disclosure controls and procedures address cybersecurity and include processes intended to ensure that security breaches are analyzed for potential disclosure. Additionally, we conduct periodic training for our employees regarding the protection of sensitive information which includes training intended to prevent the success of cyberattacks. Further, our insider trading compliance program addresses restrictions against trading while in possession of material, nonpublic information in connection with a cybersecurity incident. While we have experienced cybersecurity attacks, we have not suffered any material losses relating to such attacks, and we believe our threat detection and mitigation processes and procedures are robust.  Due to the evolving nature of security threats, the possibility of future material incidents cannot be completely mitigated, and we may not always be successful in timely detecting, reporting or responding to cyber incidents. Future attacks or breaches of data security, whether of our systems or the systems of our service providers or other third parties who may have access to our data for business purposes, could disrupt our operations, cause the loss of business information or compromise confidential information, exposing us to liability or regulatory action. Such an incident also could require significant management attention and resources, increase costs that may not be covered by insurance, and result in reputational damage, potentially adversely affecting our competitiveness and our results of operations. Products and services that we provide to our customers may themselves be subject to cyberthreats which may not be detected or effectively mitigated, resulting in potential losses that could adversely affect us and our customers. In addition, our customers, including the U.S. Government, are increasingly requiring cybersecurity protections and mandating cybersecurity standards in our products, and we may incur additional costs to comply with such demands. Failure to perform by our subcontractors or suppliers could adversely affect our performance. We rely on other companies to provide raw materials, major components and subsystems for our products. Subcontractors also perform services that we provide to our customers in certain circumstances. We depend on these suppliers and subcontractors to meet our contractual obligations to our customers and conduct our operations. Our ability to meet our obligations to our customers could be adversely affected if suppliers or subcontractors do not provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services in compliance with customer requirements and in a timely and cost-effective manner. Likewise, the quality of our products could be adversely impacted if companies to whom we delegate manufacture of major components or subsystems for our products, or from whom we acquire such items, do not provide components or subsystems which meet required specifications and perform to our and our customers’ expectations. Our suppliers may be less likely than us to be able to quickly recover from natural disasters and other events beyond their control and may be subject to additional risks such as financial problems that limit their ability to conduct their operations. For example, certain of our businesses have been, and may continue to be, adversely impacted by suppliers which were unable to perform as anticipated due to impacts of the pandemic. The risk of these adverse effects would likely be greater in circumstances where we rely on only one or two subcontractors or suppliers for a particular raw material, product or service. In particular, in the aircraft industry, most vendor parts are certified by the regulatory agencies as part of the overall Type Certificate for the aircraft being produced by the manufacturer. If a vendor does not or cannot supply its parts, then the manufacturer’s production line may be stopped until the manufacturer can design, manufacture and certify a similar part itself or identify and certify another similar vendor’s part, resulting in significant delays in the completion of aircraft. Such events may adversely affect our financial results, damage our reputation and relationships with our customers, and result in regulatory actions and/or litigation. We are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries that could adversely impact our business. During 2021, we derived approximately 31% of our revenues from international business, including U.S. exports. Conducting business internationally exposes us to additional risks than if we conducted our business solely within the U.S. We maintain manufacturing facilities, service centers, supply centers and other facilities worldwide, including in various emerging market countries.  Risks related to international operations include import, export, economic sanctions and other trade restrictions; changing U.S. and foreign procurement policies and practices; changes in international trade policies, including higher tariffs on imported goods and materials and renegotiation of free trade agreements; potential retaliatory tariffs imposed by foreign countries against U.S. goods; impacts related to the voluntary exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union (Brexit); restrictions on 13 technology transfer; difficulties in protecting intellectual property; increasing complexity of employment and environmental, health and safety regulations; foreign investment laws; exchange controls; repatriation of earnings or cash settlement challenges; compliance with increasingly rigorous data privacy and protection laws; competition from foreign and multinational firms with home country advantages; economic and government instability, acts of terrorism and related safety concerns.  The impact of any one or more of these or other factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Additionally, some international government customers require contractors to agree to specific in-country purchases, technology transfers, manufacturing agreements or financial support arrangements, known as offsets, as a condition for a contract award. These contracts generally extend over several years and may include penalties if we fail to perform in accordance with the offset requirements which are often subjective. We also are exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations and teaming with international subcontractors and suppliers in connection with international programs. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we maintain policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, a violation of such laws by any of our international representatives, consultants, joint ventures, business partners, subcontractors or suppliers, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. Natural disasters or other events outside of our control may disrupt our operations, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and may not be fully covered by insurance. Natural disasters, including hurricanes, fires, tornados, floods and other forms of severe weather, the intensity and frequency of which are being exacerbated by climate change, other impacts of climate change, such as rising sea waters, as well as other events outside of our control including public health crises or pandemics, power outages and industrial accidents, have in the past and could in the future disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business. Any of these events could result in physical damage to and/or complete or partial closure of one or more of our facilities, temporary or long-term disruption of our operations or the operations of our suppliers by causing business interruptions or by impacting the availability and cost of materials needed for manufacturing or otherwise impacting our ability to deliver products and services to our customers. Existing insurance arrangements may not provide full protection for the costs that may arise from such events. The occurrence of any of these events could materially increase our costs and expenses and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Financial Risks If our Finance segment has difficulty collecting on its finance receivables, our financial performance could be adversely affected. The financial performance of our Finance segment depends on the quality of loans, leases and other assets in its portfolio. Portfolio quality can be adversely affected by several factors, including finance receivable underwriting procedures, collateral value, geographic or industry concentrations, and the effect of general economic conditions such as the recent deterioration of the economy due to the impact from the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result of the pandemic, our Finance segment modified a significant number of the loans in its portfolio in order to provide temporary payment relief to its customers and has provided extended payment relief to certain customers. While a majority of these modified loans have returned to paying status, our ultimate recovery on these assets could be delayed or impacted. In addition, a substantial number of the originations in our finance receivable portfolio are cross-border transactions for aircraft sold outside of the U.S. Cross-border transactions present additional challenges and risks in the event of borrower default, which can result in difficulty or delay in collecting on the related finance receivables. If our Finance segment has difficulty successfully collecting on its finance receivable portfolio, our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We periodically need to obtain financing and such financing may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. We periodically need to obtain financing in order to meet our debt obligations as they come due, to support our operations and/or to make acquisitions. Our access to the debt capital markets and the cost of borrowings are affected by a number of factors including market conditions and the strength of our credit ratings. If we cannot obtain adequate sources of credit on favorable terms, or at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and various non-U.S. jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the location of income among these different jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings indefinitely reinvested offshore, changes to unrecognized tax benefits or changes in tax laws, which could affect our profitability. In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income, as well as changes to applicable statutory tax rates. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a tax authority could affect our profitability. 14 Risks Related to Regulatory and Legal Matters We are subject to increasing compliance risks that could adversely affect our operating results. As a global business, we are subject to laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate. International sales and global operations require importing and exporting goods, software and technology, some of which have military applications subjecting them to more stringent import-export controls across international borders on a regular basis. For example, we sometimes initially must obtain licenses and authorizations from various U.S. Government agencies before we are permitted to sell certain of our aerospace and defense products outside the U.S., and we are not always successful in obtaining these licenses or authorizations in a timely manner. Both U.S. and foreign laws and regulations applicable to us have been increasing in scope and complexity. For example, both U.S. and foreign governments and government agencies regulate the aviation industry, and they have previously and may in the future impose new regulations for additional aircraft security or other requirements or restrictions. New or changing laws and regulations or related interpretation and policies could increase our costs of doing business, affect how we conduct our operations, adversely impact demand for our products, and/or limit our ability to sell our products and services. Compliance with laws and regulations of increasing scope and complexity is even more challenging in our current business environment in which reducing our operating costs is often necessary to remain competitive. In addition, a violation of U.S. and/or foreign laws by one of our employees or business partners could subject us or our employees to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions, such as denial of import or export privileges and/or debarment as a government contractor which could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our business. Certain of our products are subject to laws regulating consumer products and could be subject to repurchase or recall as a result of safety issues. As a distributor of consumer products in the U.S., certain of our products are subject to the Consumer Product Safety Act, which empowers the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) to exclude from the market products that are found to be unsafe or hazardous. Under certain circumstances, the CPSC could require us to repair, replace or refund the purchase price of one or more of our products, or potentially even discontinue entire product lines. We also may voluntarily take such action and, from time to time, have done so, but within strictures recommended by the CPSC. The CPSC also can impose fines or penalties on a manufacturer for non-compliance with its requirements. Furthermore, failure to timely notify the CPSC of a potential safety hazard can result in significant fines being assessed against us. Any repurchases or recalls of our products or an imposition of fines or penalties could be costly to us and could damage the reputation or the value of our brands. Additionally, laws regulating certain consumer products exist in some states, as well as in other countries in which we sell our products, and more restrictive laws and regulations could be adopted in the future. Increased regulation and stakeholder expectations related to global climate change could negatively affect our operating results. Increased worldwide public awareness and concern regarding global climate change has resulted and is likely to continue to result in more legislative and regulatory efforts to address the negative impacts of climate change. Such laws and regulations may include more restrictive or expansive standards, such as stricter limits on greenhouse gas emissions by our facilities or our products that produce carbon emissions, more prescriptive reporting of environmental, social and governance metrics and/or other compliance requirements. Because the impact of any future climate change-related legislative, regulatory, or product standard requirements on our global businesses and products is dependent on the timing and design of mandates or standards, we are unable to predict their potential impact at this time. Moreover, our investors, customers, employees and other stakeholders increasingly expect us to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions generated by our operations and our products and publicly report our plans and progress on these efforts. Laws and regulations addressing climate change, and our efforts to meet the expectations of our stakeholders, could lead to the necessity of additional investment in product development, changes to our manufacturing processes, sourcing from new suppliers, changes to our facilities and/or equipment and greater internal resources, all of which could increase our costs and negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position. We are subject to legal proceedings and other claims. We are subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising out of the conduct of our business, including proceedings and claims relating to commercial and financial transactions; government contracts; alleged lack of compliance with applicable laws and regulations; production partners; product liability; patent and trademark infringement; employment disputes; and environmental, safety and health matters.  Due to the nature of our manufacturing business, we are regularly subject to liability claims arising from accidents involving our products, including claims for serious personal injuries or death caused by weather or by pilot, driver or user error. In the case of litigation matters for which reserves have not been established because the loss is not deemed probable, it is reasonably possible that such claims could be decided against us and could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures in amounts that are not presently estimable. In addition, we cannot be certain that our reserves are adequate and that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more substantial claims. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage at acceptable levels and costs in the future. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and we could incur judgments, receive adverse arbitration awards or enter into settlements for current or future claims that could adversely affect our results of operations in any particular period. 15 Intellectual property infringement claims of others and the inability to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our customers. Intellectual property infringement claims are, from time to time, asserted by third parties against us or our customers. Any related indemnification payments or legal costs we are obliged to pay on behalf of our businesses, our customers or other third parties can be costly.  Infringement claims also have resulted in legal restrictions on our businesses engaging in sales of allegedly infringing products. If such a restriction were imposed upon a material product line, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted.  In addition, we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names, trade names and trade secrets that are important to our business. The inability to enforce these intellectual property rights could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, our intellectual property could be at risk due to cybersecurity threats. Risks Related to Human Capital Our success is highly dependent on our ability to hire and retain a qualified workforce. Our success is highly dependent upon our ability to hire and retain a workforce with the skills necessary for our businesses to develop and manufacture the products desired by our customers. We need highly skilled personnel in multiple areas including, among others, engineering, manufacturing, information technology, cybersecurity, flight operations, business development and strategy and management. Because many of our businesses experience cyclical demand, they face challenges in maintaining their workforce at levels appropriate to market demand which in the past has necessitated workforce reductions at some of our businesses as demand decreased. Conversely, our businesses sometimes need to increase the size of their workforce in order to keep pace with production needs due to increased customer demand. Furthermore, for our defense businesses the uncertainty of being awarded follow-on contracts and the related timing can also present difficulties in matching workforce size with contract needs. In addition, from time to time we face challenges that may impact employee retention, such as workforce reductions and facility consolidations and closures, and some of our most experienced employees are retirement-eligible which may adversely impact retention. To the extent that we lose experienced personnel through retirement or otherwise, it is critical for us to develop other employees, hire new qualified employees and successfully manage the transfer of critical knowledge. Competition for skilled employees is intense, and we may incur higher labor, recruiting and/or training costs in order to attract and retain employees with the requisite skills. We may not be successful in hiring or retaining such employees which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. The increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect our results. Our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted by increasing costs and funding requirements related to our employee benefit plans. The obligation for our defined benefit pension plans is driven by, among other things, our assumptions of the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the discount rate used for future payment obligations. Additionally, as part of our annual evaluation of these plans, significant changes in our assumptions, due to changes in economic, legislative and/or demographic experience or circumstances, or changes in our actual investment returns could negatively impact the funded status of our plans requiring us to substantially increase our pension liability with a resulting decrease in shareholders’ equity. Also, changes in pension legislation and regulations could increase the cost associated with our defined benefit pension plans. Our business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages and other labor issues. Approximately 7,000, or 27%, of our U.S. employees are unionized, and many of our non-U.S. employees are represented by organized councils. As a result, from time to time we experience work stoppages, which can negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, resulting in strain on our relationships with our customers, loss or delay of revenues and/or increased cost. The presence of unions also may limit our flexibility in responding to competitive pressures in the marketplace. In addition, the workforces of many of our suppliers and customers are represented by labor unions. Work stoppages or strikes at the plants of our key suppliers could disrupt our manufacturing processes; similar actions at the plants of our customers could result in delayed or canceled orders for our products. Any of these events could adversely affect our results of operations.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Overview In 2021, Textron’s revenues increased 6% and segment profit increased 51%, compared with 2020, reflecting higher volume and pricing, along with performance improvements. Higher earnings and working capital improvements during the year resulted in a year-over-year increase of $636 million in net cash flows from operating activities from our manufacturing businesses. While most of our commercial businesses have not yet returned to 2019 pre-pandemic levels, we experienced a rebound in customer demand in these businesses during 2021. Customer demand for our Textron Aviation aircraft products, in particular, increased throughout the year, enabling the business to return to a more normalized and efficient manufacturing cadence and resulted in a $2.5 billion, 157%, increase in backlog. During the year, we have been impacted by ongoing pandemic-related global supply chain shortages and delays, as well as inflation, primarily in the Industrial segment, and we continue to manage through these challenges. Key financial highlights for 2021 include: • Generated $1.5 billion of net cash from operating activities from our manufacturing businesses. • Improved our ratio of debt, net of cash and equivalents, to capital to 16%, from 21% in 2020. • Invested $619 million in research and development projects and $375 million in capital expenditures. • Returned $921 million to our shareholders through repurchasing 13.5 million shares of our common stock. For an overview of our business segments, including a discussion of our major products and services, refer to Item 1. Business. A discussion of our financial condition and operating results for 2021 compared with 2020 is provided below, while a discussion of 2020 compared with 2019 can be found in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 2, 2021. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Consolidated Results of Operations Revenues Revenues increased $731 million, 6%, in 2021, compared with 2020, primarily at the Textron Aviation and Industrial segments. Textron Aviation revenues were higher by $592 million, largely due to higher Citation jet volume of $330 million, and higher aftermarket volume of $204 million.  Revenues at Industrial were higher by $130 million, largely due to a favorable impact of $142 million from pricing, principally in the Specialized Vehicles product line. Cost of Sales and Selling and Administrative Expense Cost of sales includes cost of products and services sold for the Manufacturing group. In 2021, cost of sales increased $203 million, 2%, compared with 2020, largely due to higher net volume and mix described above and an unfavorable impact from inflation of $117 million, principally reflecting higher material costs in the Industrial segment. These increases were partially offset by the impact of costs incurred in 2020, including idle facility costs of $142 million, primarily at the Textron Aviation segment, and a $55 million inventory charge related to the TRU Canada business discussed in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Gross margin as a percentage of Manufacturing revenues increased 350 basis points in 2021, compared with 2020, primarily due to higher margin at the Textron Aviation segment reflecting the impact of higher product sales. Selling and administrative expense increased $176 million, 17%, in 2021, compared with 2020, primarily at the Textron Aviation and Industrial segments as more normalized operating activities resumed during 2021 compared to 2020, which included temporary cost reduction activities related to the pandemic, and higher share-based compensation expense due to stock appreciation. 19 Interest Expense Interest expense on the Consolidated Statements of Operations includes interest for both the Finance and Manufacturing borrowing groups with interest related to intercompany borrowings eliminated. Interest expense for the Finance segment is included within segment profit and includes intercompany interest.  Consolidated interest expense decreased $24 million, 14%, in 2021, compared with 2020, primarily due to lower average debt outstanding. Special Charges Special charges of $25 million and $147 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively, primarily include restructuring activities and 2020 intangible asset impairment charges as described in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Income Taxes In 2021, the effective tax rate of 14.4% was lower than the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%, largely due to the favorable impact of research and development credits, which included a $12 million benefit recognized for additional credits related to prior years.  In 2020, the effective tax rate of (9.6)% was lower than the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%, primarily due to an audit settlement with respect to certain state income tax returns that resulted in a $52 million benefit and the favorable impact of research and development credits. For a full reconciliation of our effective tax rate to the U.S. federal statutory tax rate, see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Segment Analysis We operate in, and report financial information for, the following five business segments: Textron Aviation, Bell, Textron Systems, Industrial and Finance. Segment profit is an important measure used for evaluating performance and for decision-making purposes. Segment profit for the manufacturing segments excludes interest expense, certain corporate expenses, gains/losses on major business dispositions, special charges and an inventory charge related to the 2020 COVID-19 restructuring plan, as discussed in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. The measurement for the Finance segment includes interest income and expense along with intercompany interest income and expense.  Operating expenses for the Manufacturing segments include cost of sales, selling and administrative expense and other non-service components of net periodic benefit cost/(income), and exclude certain corporate expenses and special charges. In our discussion of comparative results for the Manufacturing group, changes in revenues and segment profit for our commercial businesses typically are expressed in terms of volume and mix, pricing, foreign exchange, acquisitions and dispositions, inflation and performance. For revenues, volume and mix represents changes in revenues from increases or decreases in the number of units delivered or services provided and the composition of products and/or services sold.  For segment profit, volume and mix represents a change due to the number of units delivered or services provided and the composition of products and/or services sold at different profit margins. Pricing represents changes in unit pricing. Foreign exchange is the change resulting from translating foreign-denominated amounts into U.S. dollars at exchange rates that are different from the prior period. Revenues generated by acquired businesses are reflected in Acquisitions for a twelve-month period, while reductions in revenues and segment profit from the sale of businesses are reflected as Dispositions. Inflation represents higher material, wages, benefits, pension service cost or other costs.  Performance reflects an increase or decrease in research and development, depreciation, selling and administrative costs, warranty, product liability, quality/scrap, labor efficiency, overhead, non-service pension cost/(income), product line profitability, start-up, ramp up and cost-reduction initiatives or other manufacturing inputs. Approximately 26% of our 2021 revenues were derived from contracts with the U.S. Government, including those under the U.S. Government-sponsored foreign military sales program.  For our segments that contract with the U.S. Government, changes in revenues related to these contracts are expressed in terms of volume.  Changes in segment profit for these contracts are typically expressed in terms of volume and mix and performance; these include cumulative catch-up adjustments associated with a) revisions to the transaction price that may reflect contract modifications or changes in assumptions related to award fees and other variable consideration or b) changes in the total estimated costs at completion due to improved or deteriorated operating performance. 20 Textron Aviation Textron Aviation Revenues and Operating Expenses Factors contributing to the 2021 year-over-year revenue change are provided below: Textron Aviation’s revenues increased $592 million, 15%, in 2021, compared with 2020, largely due to higher Citation jet volume of $330 million and higher aftermarket volume of $204 million, reflecting higher aircraft utilization.  We delivered 167 Citation jets and 125 commercial turboprops in 2021, compared with 132 Citation jets and 113 commercial turboprops in 2020. Textron Aviation’s operating expenses increased $230 million, 6%, in 2021, compared with 2020, largely due to higher volume and mix described above. Operating expenses in 2020 were also negatively impacted by idle facility costs of $115 million and inventory valuation charges, largely resulting from the pandemic, partially offset by cost reduction activities, including employee furloughs instituted during the first half of 2020. Textron Aviation Segment Profit Factors contributing to 2021 year-over-year segment profit change are provided below: Textron Aviation’s segment profit increased $362 million in 2021, compared with 2020, due to the impact from higher volume and mix described above, a favorable impact from performance of $74 million and favorable pricing, net of inflation of $57 million. Performance included the impact of idle facility costs of $115 million in 2020 and lower inventory charges of $59 million, partially offset by higher selling and administrative costs as more normalized operating activities resumed during 2021 compared to 2020, which included temporary cost reduction activities related to the pandemic. Textron Aviation Backlog Textron Aviation’s backlog increased $2.5 billion in 2021 as a result of orders in excess of deliveries. 21 Bell Bell’s major U.S. Government programs at this time are the V-22 tiltrotor aircraft and the H-1 helicopter platforms, which are both in the production and support stage and represent a significant portion of Bell’s revenues from the U.S. Government. Over the next several years, the H-1 helicopter program with the U.S. Government will be transitioning from the production stage to the support stage. Bell Revenues and Operating Expenses Factors contributing to the 2021 year-over-year revenue change are provided below: Bell’s revenues increased $55 million, 2%, in 2021, compared with 2020, reflecting higher commercial revenues of $195 million, primarily due to higher volume, partially offset by lower military revenues of $140 million, reflecting lower spares and support volume and the winddown of the H-1 production program.  We delivered 156 commercial helicopters in 2021, compared with 140 commercial helicopters in 2020. Bell’s operating expenses increased $109 million, 4%, in 2021, compared with 2020, primarily due to higher net volume and mix described above and higher research and development costs, largely related to the future vertical lift programs. Bell Segment Profit Factors contributing to 2021 year-over-year segment profit change are provided below: Bell’s segment profit decreased $54 million, 12%, in 2021, compared with 2020, largely reflecting an unfavorable impact of $36 million from performance, which included higher research and development costs discussed above and higher selling and administrative costs. The increase in revenues attributed to volume and mix above had an unfavorable impact on segment profit due to the mix of military and commercial products sold. Bell Backlog Bell’s backlog decreased $1.5 billion, 28%, in 2021, primarily as a result of revenues recognized on our U.S. Government contracts in excess of new contracts received. 22 Textron Systems Textron Systems Revenues and Operating Expenses Factors contributing to the 2021 year-over-year revenue change are provided below: Revenues at Textron Systems decreased $40 million, 3%, in 2021, compared with 2020.  Lower volume of $16 million included a $79 million decrease from our fee-for-service contracts, primarily reflecting the impact from the U.S. Army’s withdrawal from Afghanistan, partially offset by higher volume at ATAC of $69 million, primarily from increased demand for its military tactical air services. The other decrease of $24 million in the table above included the impact of a $28 million reduction in revenues as a result of the cessation of manufacturing at the TRU Simulation + Training Canada Inc. (TRU Canada) facility which occurred in the second quarter of 2020 related to the impact of the pandemic on that business.  In January 2021, we sold TRU Canada as discussed in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Textron Systems’ operating expenses decreased $77 million, 7%, in 2021, compared with 2020, primarily related to the cessation of manufacturing at TRU Canada and  lower net volume described above. Textron Systems Segment Profit Factors contributing to 2021 year-over-year segment profit change are provided below: Textron Systems’ segment profit increased $37 million, 24%, in 2021, compared with 2020, due to a favorable impact from performance and other, which included a $19 million impact from TRU Canada related to unfavorable performance and other in 2020. Textron Systems Backlog Backlog at Textron Systems’ decreased $412 million in 2021, primarily due to revenues recognized in excess of new contracts received. 23 Industrial Industrial Revenues and Operating Expenses Factors contributing to the 2021 year-over-year revenue change are provided below: Industrial segment revenues increased $130 million, 4%, in 2021, compared with 2020, due to a favorable impact of $142 million from pricing, principally in the Specialized Vehicles product line, and $50 million from foreign exchange rate fluctuations, largely related to the Euro and the Chinese Yuan in the Fuel Systems and Functional Components product line. These increases were partially offset by lower volume and mix of $62 million, largely in the Fuel Systems and Functional Components product line due to the impact of global supply chain shortages on our original equipment manufacturer customers. Operating expenses for the Industrial segment increased $101 million, 3%, in 2021 compared with 2020, primarily reflecting inflation of $105 million, largely in material costs, and an unfavorable impact of $54 million from foreign exchange rate fluctuations, partially offset by the impact of lower volume and mix described above. Industrial Segment Profit Factors contributing to 2021 year-over-year segment profit change are provided below: Segment profit for the Industrial segment increased $29 million, 26%, in 2021, compared with 2020, primarily due to a favorable impact of $37 million, from pricing, net of inflation, largely in the Specialized Vehicles product line, and a favorable impact of $10 million from performance, partially offset by lower volume and mix as described above. 24 Finance Finance segment revenues decreased $6 million in 2021, compared with 2020, and segment profit increased $9 million in 2021, compared with 2020, primarily due to lower provision for loan losses. The following table reflects information about the Finance segment’s credit performance related to finance receivables. Since the first quarter of 2020, the Finance segment has worked with certain customers impacted by the pandemic to provide payment relief through loan modifications. The majority of loans modified have returned to paying principal and interest. We believe our allowance for credit losses adequately covers our exposure on these loans as our estimated collateral values largely exceed the outstanding loan amounts. Loan modifications and key portfolio quality indicators are discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our financings are conducted through two separate borrowing groups.  The Manufacturing group consists of Textron consolidated with its majority-owned subsidiaries that operate in the Textron Aviation, Bell, Textron Systems and Industrial segments.  The Finance group, which also is the Finance segment, consists of Textron Financial Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. We designed this framework to enhance our borrowing power by separating the Finance group. Our Manufacturing group operations include the development, production and delivery of tangible products and services, while our Finance group provides financial services.  Due to the fundamental differences between each borrowing group’s activities, investors, rating agencies and analysts use different measures to evaluate each group’s performance. To support those evaluations, we present balance sheet and cash flow information for each borrowing group within the Consolidated Financial Statements. Assessment of Liquidity and Significant Future Cash Requirements Key information that is utilized in assessing our liquidity is summarized below: We believe that our calculations of debt to capital and net debt to capital are useful measures as they provide a summary indication of the level of debt financing (i.e., leverage) that is in place to support our capital structure, as well as to provide an indication of our capacity to add further leverage. 25 We expect to have sufficient cash to meet our needs based on our existing cash balances, the cash we expect to generate from our manufacturing operations and the availability of our existing credit facility. In addition to our manufacturing operating cash requirements, future material cash outlays include our contractual combined debt and interest payments for the Manufacturing group of $117 million in 2022, $119 million in 2023, $461 million in 2024 and $3.2 billion thereafter, and for the Finance Group of $274 million in 2022, $20 million in 2023, $16 million in 2024 and $390 million thereafter. For the Manufacturing Group, we also have purchase obligations that require material future cash outlays totaling $2.5 billion in 2022, $392 million in 2023 and $86 million thereafter. Purchase obligations include undiscounted amounts committed under legally enforceable contracts or purchase orders for goods and services with defined terms as to price, quantity and delivery dates, as well as property, plant and equipment. Approximately 29% of our purchase obligations represent purchase orders issued for goods and services to be delivered under firm contracts with the U.S. Government for which we have full recourse under customary contract termination clauses. Beginning in 2022, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 eliminates the option to deduct research and development expenditures immediately in the year incurred and requires taxpayers to amortize such expenditures over five years. Without the option to deduct these expenses in the year incurred, we estimate that our tax payments will increase by approximately $300 million in 2022, depending on the final amount of research and development expenses incurred during the year. Under the assumption that this legislation is not modified or repealed, the impact will continue over the five-year amortization period, but will decrease each year. Credit Facilities and Other Sources of Capital Textron has a senior unsecured revolving credit facility for an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion, of which up to $100 million is available for the issuance of letters of credit. We may elect to increase the aggregate amount of commitments under the facility to up to $1.3 billion by designating an additional lender or by an existing lender agreeing to increase its commitment. The facility expires in October 2024, subject to up to two one-year extensions at our option with the consent of lenders representing a majority of the commitments under the facility.  There were no amounts borrowed against the facility and there were $9 million of outstanding letters of credit issued under the facility at both January 1, 2022 and January 2, 2021. We also maintain an effective shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission that allows us to issue an unlimited amount of public debt and other securities. In August 2021, we repaid $50 million of the Finance Group’s $150 million variable-rate loan due September 2021. On September 20, 2021, the loan was amended to extend the maturity date to September 2022 for the remaining $100 million principal amount. The annual interest rate was unchanged at LIBOR plus 1.55%, which is an annual interest rate of 1.65% at January 1, 2022. Manufacturing Group Cash Flows Cash flows from continuing operations for the Manufacturing group as presented in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows are summarized below: Cash flows from operating activities were $1.5 billion in 2021 compared with $833 million in 2020. The $636 million year-over-year increase in net cash inflow was primarily due to higher earnings and working capital improvements. The working capital improvements reflected the impact of lower payments to settle accounts payable in 2021, compared with 2020, which had a $613 million cash outflow, and a $253 million year-over-year increase in contract liabilities, largely reflecting higher customer deposits at the Textron Aviation segment, partially offset by year-over-year changes in inventories and accounts receivable. Net tax payments were $72 million and $34 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Pension contributions were $52 million and $47 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively. In 2021 and 2020, investing cash flows primarily included capital expenditures of $375 million and $317 million, respectively. Cash flows used by financing activities in 2021 included $921 million of cash paid to repurchase an aggregate of 13.5 million shares of our common stock under a 2020 share repurchase plan, and $524 million of payments on long-term debt. In 2020, cash flows provided by financing activities included $1.1 billion of net proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt and $377 million of proceeds from borrowings against corporate-owned life insurance policies, partially offset by $548 million of payments on long-term debt, $377 million of payments on borrowings against corporate-owned life insurance policies, and $183 million of cash paid to repurchase an aggregate of 4.1 million shares of our common stock. 26 On January 25, 2022, we announced the authorization of the repurchase of up to 25 million shares of our common stock. This new plan allows us to continue our practice of repurchasing shares to offset the impact of dilution from stock-based compensation and benefit plans and for opportunistic capital management purposes. The 2022 plan has no expiration date and replaced the prior 2020 share repurchase authorization, which was utilized in 2021 and 2020 for repurchases. Dividend payments to shareholders totaled $18 million in both 2021 and 2020. Finance Group Cash Flows The cash flows from continuing operations for the Finance group as presented in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows are summarized below: The Finance group’s cash flows from investing activities primarily included collections on finance receivables totaling $250 million and $128 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively, and finance receivable originations of $100 million and $195 million, respectively.  Cash flows used in financing activities included payments on long-term and nonrecourse debt of $97 million and $45 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Consolidated Cash Flows The consolidated cash flows from continuing operations, after elimination of activity between the borrowing groups, are summarized below: Consolidated cash flows from operating activities were $1.6 billion in 2021, compared with $769 million in 2020. The $830 million year-over-year increase in net cash inflow was primarily due to higher earnings and working capital improvements. The working capital improvements reflected the impact of lower payments to settle accounts payable in 2021, compared with 2020, which had a $613 million cash outflow, a $253 million year-over-year increase in contract liabilities, largely reflecting higher customer deposits at the Textron Aviation segment, and a year-over-year cash inflow of $220 million from captive finance receivables, partially offset by year-over-year changes in inventories and accounts receivable.  Net tax payments were $93 million and $42 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively.  Pension contributions were $52 million and $47 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively. In 2021 and 2020, investing cash flows included capital expenditures of $375 million and $317 million, respectively. Cash flows used by financing activities in 2021 primarily included $921 million of share repurchases and $621 million of payments on outstanding debt. In 2020, cash flows provided by financing activities included $1.1 billion of net proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt and $377 million from borrowings against corporate-owned life insurance policies, partially offset by $593 million of payments on outstanding debt, $377 million of payments on borrowings against corporate-owned life insurance policies, and $183 million of share repurchases. Captive Financing and Other Intercompany Transactions The Finance group provides financing primarily to purchasers of new and pre-owned Textron Aviation aircraft and Bell helicopters manufactured by our Manufacturing group, otherwise known as captive financing. In the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, cash received from customers is reflected as operating activities when received from third parties. However, in the cash flow information provided for the separate borrowing groups, cash flows related to captive financing activities are reflected based on the operations of each group. For example, when product is sold by our Manufacturing group to a customer and is financed by the Finance group, the origination of the finance receivable is recorded within investing activities as a cash outflow in the Finance group’s statement of cash flows. Meanwhile, in the Manufacturing group’s statement of cash flows, the cash received from the Finance group on the customer’s behalf is recorded within operating cash flows as a cash inflow. Although cash is transferred between the two borrowing groups, there is no cash transaction reported in the consolidated cash flows at the time of the original financing. These captive financing activities, along with all significant intercompany transactions, are reclassified or eliminated from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. 27 Reclassification adjustments included in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows are summarized below: Under a Support Agreement between Textron and TFC, Textron is required to maintain a controlling interest in TFC. The agreement, as amended in December 2015, also requires Textron to ensure that TFC maintains fixed charge coverage of no less than 125% and consolidated shareholders' equity of no less than $125 million. There were no cash contributions required to be paid to TFC in 2021 and 2020 to maintain compliance with the support agreement. Critical Accounting Estimates To prepare our Consolidated Financial Statements to be in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, we must make complex and subjective judgments in the selection and application of accounting policies. The accounting policies that we believe are most critical to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations are listed below. We believe these policies require our most difficult, subjective and complex judgments in estimating the effect of inherent uncertainties. This section should be read in conjunction with Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which includes other significant accounting policies. Revenue Recognition A substantial portion of our revenues is related to long-term contracts with the U.S. Government, including those under the U.S. Government-sponsored foreign military sales program, for the design, development, manufacture or modification of aerospace and defense products as well as related parts and services.  We generally use the cost-to-cost method to measure progress for these contracts because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer that occurs as we incur costs on our contracts.  Under this measure, the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the estimated costs at completion of the performance obligation, and revenue is recorded proportionally as costs are incurred. Due to the number of years it may take to complete these contracts and the scope and nature of the work required to be performed on the contracts, the estimation of total transaction price and costs at completion is complicated and subject to many variables and, accordingly, is subject to change. In estimating total costs at completion, we are required to make numerous assumptions related to the complexity of design and related development work to be performed; engineering requirements; product performance; subcontractor performance; availability and cost of materials; labor productivity, availability and cost; overhead and capital costs; manufacturing efficiencies; the length of time to complete the contract (to estimate increases in wages and prices for materials); and costs of satisfying offset obligations, among other variables. Our cost estimation process is based on the professional knowledge and experience of engineers and program managers along with finance professionals. We review and update our cost projections quarterly or more frequently when circumstances significantly change. When our estimate of the total costs to be incurred on a contract exceeds the estimated total transaction price, a provision for the entire loss is recorded in the period in which the loss is determined. At the outset of each contract, we estimate an initial profit booking rate considering the risks surrounding our ability to achieve the technical requirements (e.g., a newly-developed product versus a mature product), schedule (e.g., the number and type of milestone events), and costs by contract requirements in the initial estimated costs at completion. Profit booking rates may increase during the performance of the contract if we successfully retire risks surrounding the technical, schedule and cost aspects of the contract. Conversely, the profit booking rate may decrease if we are not successful in retiring the risks; and, as a result, our estimated costs at completion increase. All estimates are subject to change during the performance of the contract and, therefore, may affect the profit booking rate. 28 Changes in our estimate of the total expected cost or in the transaction price for a contract typically impact our profit booking rate. We utilize the cumulative catch-up method of accounting to recognize the impact of these changes on our profit booking rate for a contract. Under this method, the inception-to-date impact of a profit adjustment on a contract is recognized in the period the adjustment is identified. The impact of our cumulative catch-up adjustments on segment profit recognized in prior periods is presented below: Due to the significance of judgment in the estimation process described above, it is likely that materially different revenues and/or cost of sales amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Our earnings could be reduced by a material amount resulting in a charge to earnings if (a) total estimated contract costs are significantly higher than expected due to changes in customer specifications prior to contract amendment, (b) total estimated contract costs are significantly higher than previously estimated due to cost overruns or inflation, (c) there is a change in engineering efforts required during the development stage of the contract or (d) we are unable to meet contract milestones. Goodwill We evaluate the recoverability of goodwill annually in the fourth quarter or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment of a reporting unit. We calculate the fair value of each reporting unit using discounted cash flows. These cash flows incorporate assumptions for revenue growth rates and operating margins that are based on our strategic plans and long-range planning forecasts, which include our best estimates of current and forecasted market conditions, cost structure and anticipated net cost reductions. The long-term revenue growth rate we use to determine the terminal value of the business is based on our assessment of its minimum expected terminal growth rate, as well as its past historical growth and broader economic considerations such as gross domestic product, inflation and the maturity of the markets we serve. The discount rates utilized in this analysis are based on each reporting unit’s weighted average cost of capital, which takes into account the relative weights of each component of capital structure (equity and debt) and represents the expected cost of new capital, adjusted as appropriate to consider the risk inherent in future cash flows of the respective reporting unit. We believe this approach yields a discount rate that is consistent with an implied rate of return that an independent investor or market participant would require for an investment in a company having similar risks and business characteristics to the reporting unit being assessed. Based on our annual impairment review, the fair value calculated using the estimates discussed above exceeded the carrying value by an adequate amount for each reporting group.  Accordingly, we do not believe that there is a reasonable possibility that any units might fail the impairment test in the foreseeable future. Retirement Benefits We sponsor funded and unfunded domestic and international pension plans for certain of our employees. Beginning on January 1, 2010, we initiated actions to commence the closure of the pension plans to new entrants. We provide employees hired subsequent to these closures with defined contribution benefits. Our pension benefit obligations are calculated based on actuarial valuations. Key assumptions used in determining these obligations and related expenses or benefits include the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets and discount rates. We also make assumptions regarding employee demographic factors such as retirement patterns, mortality, turnover and rate of compensation increases.  We evaluate and update these assumptions annually. To determine the weighted-average expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, we consider the current and expected asset allocation, as well as historical and expected returns on each plan asset class.  A lower expected rate of return on plan assets will increase pension expense.  For 2021 and 2020, the assumed expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used in calculating pension expense was 7.10% and 7.55%, respectively. For 2021, the assumed rate of return for our domestic plans, which represent approximately 90% of our total pension assets, was 7.25%. The discount rate enables us to state expected future benefit payments as a present value on the measurement date, reflecting the current rate at which the pension liabilities could be effectively settled. This rate should be in line with rates for high-quality fixed income investments available for the period to maturity of the pension benefits, which fluctuate as long-term interest rates change.  A lower discount rate increases the present value of the benefit obligations and increases pension expense.  In 2021, the weighted-average discount rate used in calculating pension expense was 2.62%, compared with 3.36% in 2020.  For our domestic plans, the assumed discount rate was 2.70% in 2021, compared with 3.45% in 2020. A decrease of 50 basis-points in this weighted-average discount rate in 2021 would have increased pension cost for our domestic plans by approximately $20 million. 29