********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. You should carefully consider the following risks, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the sections titled “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, or prospects and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, which would cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Our business, financial condition, operating results, or prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material. Risk Factor Summary The following are some of these risks, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business financial condition, operating results, or prospects. • The COVID-19 pandemic and the impact of actions to mitigate the pandemic has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect parts of our business. • Our business would be adversely affected if Drivers were classified as employees, workers or quasi-employees instead of independent contractors. • The mobility, delivery, and logistics industries are highly competitive, with well-established and low-cost alternatives that have been available for decades, low barriers to entry, low switching costs, and well-capitalized competitors in nearly every major geographic region. • To remain competitive in certain markets, we have in the past lowered, and may continue to lower, fares or service fees, and we have in the past offered, and may continue to offer, significant Driver incentives and consumer discounts and promotions. • We have incurred significant losses since inception, including in the United States and other major markets. We expect our operating expenses to increase significantly in the foreseeable future, and we may not achieve profitability. • If we are unable to attract or maintain a critical mass of Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, and carriers, whether as a result of competition or other factors, our platform will become less appealing to platform users. • Our workplace culture and forward-leaning approach created operational, compliance, and cultural challenges and our efforts to address these challenges may not be successful. • Maintaining and enhancing our brand and reputation is critical to our business prospects. We have previously received significant media coverage and negative publicity regarding our brand and reputation, and a failure to rehabilitate our brand and reputation will cause our business to suffer. • If we are unable to optimize our organizational structure or effectively manage our growth, our financial performance and future prospects will be adversely affected. 11 • Platform users may engage in, or be subject to, criminal, violent, inappropriate, or dangerous activity that results in major safety incidents, which may harm our ability to attract and retain Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, and carriers. • We are making substantial investments in new offerings and technologies, and may increase such investments in the future. These new ventures are inherently risky, and we may never realize any expected benefits from them. • We generate a significant percentage of our Gross Bookings from trips in large metropolitan areas, and these operations may be negatively affected by economic, social, weather, and regulatory conditions or other circumstances, including COVID-19. • We may fail to offer autonomous vehicle technologies on our platform, fail to offer such technologies on our platform before our competitors, or such technologies may fail to perform as expected, may be inferior to those of our competitors, or may be perceived as less safe than those of our competitors or non-autonomous vehicles. • Our business depends on retaining and attracting high-quality personnel, and continued attrition, future attrition, or unsuccessful succession planning could adversely affect our business. • We may experience security or data privacy breaches or other unauthorized or improper access to, use of, alteration of or destruction of our proprietary or confidential data, employee data, or platform user data. • Cyberattacks, computer malware, viruses, spamming, and phishing attacks could harm our reputation, business, and operating results. • We rely on third parties maintaining open marketplaces to distribute our platform and to provide the software we use in certain of our products and offerings. If such third parties interfere with the distribution of our products or offerings or with our use of such software, our business would be adversely affected. • We will require additional capital to support the growth of our business, and this capital might not be available on reasonable terms or at all. • If we are unable to successfully identify, acquire and integrate suitable businesses, our operating results and prospects could be harmed, and any businesses we acquire may not perform as expected or be effectively integrated. • We may continue to be blocked from or limited in providing or operating our products and offerings in certain jurisdictions, and may be required to modify our business model in those jurisdictions as a result. • Our business is subject to numerous legal and regulatory risks that could have an adverse impact on our business and future prospects. • Our business is subject to extensive government regulation and oversight relating to the provision of payment and financial services. • We face risks related to our collection, use, transfer, disclosure, and other processing of data, which could result in investigations, inquiries, litigation, fines, legislative and regulatory action, and negative press about our privacy and data protection practices. • If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, or if third parties are successful in claiming that we are misappropriating the intellectual property of others, we may incur significant expense and our business may be adversely affected. • The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile or may decline steeply or suddenly regardless of our operating performance, and we may not be able to meet investor or analyst expectations. You may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid and may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business General Economic Risks The novel coronavirus (“COVID-19”) pandemic and the impact of actions to mitigate the pandemic has adversely impacted and could continue to adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of COVID-19 a pandemic. In an attempt to limit the spread of the virus, various governmental restrictions, including the declaration of a federal National Emergency, multiple cities’ and states’ declarations of states of emergency, school and business closings, quarantines, “shelter at home” orders, restrictions on travel, limitations on social or public gatherings, and other social distancing measures have, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our business and operations, including, for example, by reducing the demand for our Mobility offerings globally, and affecting travel behavior and demand. In addition, certain U.S. jurisdictions have issued emergency orders that require us to cap fees charged to merchants on Delivery. Furthermore, to support social distancing, we have temporarily suspended UberPOOL, our shared rides offering, globally. In addition, we announced and implemented several COVID-related initiatives during the first quarter of 2020, including a financial assistance program for Drivers, as well as a commitment to provide 10 million free rides and food deliveries to healthcare 12 workers, seniors, and others in need. Furthermore, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we asked that all employees who are able to do so work remotely, and while we have since re-opened certain offices, it is possible that continued widespread remote work arrangements could have a negative impact on our operations, the execution of our business plans, and productivity and availability of key personnel and other employees necessary to conduct our business, and of third-party service providers who perform critical services for us, or otherwise cause operational failures due to changes in our normal business practices necessitated by the outbreak and related governmental actions. If a natural disaster, power outage, connectivity issue, or other event occurred that impacted our employees’ ability to work remotely, it may be difficult or, in certain cases, impossible, for us to continue our business for a substantial period of time. The increase in remote working may also result in privacy, cybersecurity and fraud risks, and our understanding of applicable legal and regulatory requirements, as well as the latest guidance from regulatory authorities in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, may be subject to legal or regulatory challenge, particularly as regulatory guidance evolves in response to future developments. In addition, in response to the economic challenges and uncertainty resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on our business, in May 2020 we announced reductions in workforce of approximately 6,700 full-time employee roles. We have responded to the COVID-19 pandemic by launching new, or expanding existing, services, features, or health and safety requirements on an expedited basis, particularly those relating to delivery of food and other goods. Our understanding of applicable privacy, consumer protection and other legal and regulatory requirements, as well as the latest guidance from regulatory authorities in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, may be subject to legal or regulatory challenge, particularly as regulatory guidance evolves in response to future developments. In addition, our launch of new, or expanding existing, services, features, or health and safety requirements in response to COVID-19 may heighten other risks described in this “Risk Factors” section, including our classification of Drivers. These challenges could result in fines or other enforcement measures that could adversely impact our financial results or operations. The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely affected our near-term financial results and may adversely impact our long-term financial results, which has required and may continue to require significant actions in response, including but not limited to, additional reductions in workforce and certain changes to pricing models of our offerings, all in an effort to mitigate such impacts. In light of the evolving nature of COVID-19 and the uncertainty it has produced around the world, we do not believe it is possible to predict with precision the pandemic’s cumulative and ultimate impact on our future business operations, liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. The extent of the impact of the pandemic on our business and financial results will depend largely on future developments, including the duration of the spread of the outbreak and any future “waves” or resurgences of the outbreak or variants of the virus, both globally and within the United States, the impact on capital and financial markets, foreign currencies exchange, governmental or regulatory orders that impact our business and whether the impacts may result in permanent changes to our end-users’ behaviors, all of which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. Moreover, even after shelter at home orders and travel advisories are lifted, demand for our Mobility offering may remain weak for a significant length of time and we cannot predict when and if our Mobility offering will return to pre-COVID-19 demand levels. Although the FDA approved the first two vaccines for COVID-19 in December 2020 and other countries have also approved vaccines, at this time, we cannot predict the timing of widespread adoption of vaccines against COVID-19 in the United States or internationally, nor their potential impact on our lines of business. In addition, we cannot predict the impact the COVID-19 pandemic will have on our business partners and third-party vendors, and we may be adversely impacted as a result of the adverse impact our business partners and third-party vendors suffer. Additionally, concerns over the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic have caused extreme volatility in financial markets, which has and may continue to adversely impact our stock price and our ability to access capital markets. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affects our business and financial results, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this “Risk Factors” section. Any of the foregoing factors, or other cascading effects of the pandemic that are not currently foreseeable, could adversely impact our business, financial performance and condition, and results of operations. Operational Risks Our business would be adversely affected if Drivers were classified as employees, workers or quasi-employees. The classification of Drivers is currently being challenged in courts, by legislators and by government agencies in the United States and abroad. We are involved in numerous legal proceedings globally, including putative class and collective class action lawsuits, demands for arbitration, charges and claims before administrative agencies, and investigations or audits by labor, social security, and tax authorities that claim that Drivers should be treated as our employees (or as workers or quasi-employees where those statuses exist), rather than as independent contractors. We believe that Drivers are independent contractors because, among other things, they can choose whether, when, and where to provide services on our platform, are free to provide services on our competitors’ platforms, and provide a vehicle to perform services on our platform. Nevertheless, we may not be successful in defending the classification of Drivers in some or all jurisdictions. Furthermore, the costs associated with defending, settling, or resolving pending and future lawsuits (including demands for arbitration) relating to the classification of Drivers have been and may continue to be material to our business. For example, in 2020, we paid $20 million (pursuant to a settlement agreement entered into in 2019) to settle 13 class actions in which Drivers who contracted with us in California and Massachusetts but with whom we had not entered into arbitration agreements, sought damages against us based on misclassification, among other claims. In addition, more than 100,000 Drivers in the United States who have entered into arbitration agreements with us have filed (or expressed an intention to file) arbitration demands against us that assert similar classification claims. We have resolved the classification claims of a majority of these Drivers under individual settlement agreements, pursuant to which we have paid approximately $155 million as of December 31, 2020. Furthermore, we are involved in numerous legal proceedings regarding the enforceability of arbitration agreements entered into with Drivers. If we are not successful in such proceedings, this could negatively impact the enforceability of arbitration agreements in other legal proceedings, which could have an adverse consequence on our business and financial condition. Changes to foreign, state, and local laws governing the definition or classification of independent contractors, or judicial decisions regarding independent contractor classification, could require classification of Drivers as employees (or workers or quasi-employees where those statuses exist) and/or representation of Drivers by labor unions. For example, California’s Assembly Bill 5 codified application of what has been commonly referred to as the “ABC Test” to the entire California Labor Code, California Wage Orders, and the Unemployment Insurance Code and became effective as of January 1, 2020. Government authorities and private plaintiffs have brought litigation asserting that Assembly Bill 5 requires Drivers in California to be classified as employees. For example, in May 2020, the California Attorney General, in conjunction with the city attorneys for San Francisco, Los Angeles and San Diego, filed a complaint in San Francisco Superior Court against Uber and Lyft, alleging that drivers are misclassified, and sought an injunction and monetary damages related to the alleged competitive advantage caused by the alleged misclassification of drivers. On August 10, 2020, following a hearing on the matter, the San Francisco Superior Court issued a preliminary injunction enjoining Uber and Lyft from classifying drivers as independent contractors during the pendency of the lawsuit. We appealed the decision and sought a stay of the preliminary injunction. On August 20, 2020, the California Court of Appeal granted an emergency stay of the injunction while an expedited appeal of the preliminary injunction decision is considered. On October 22, 2020, the California Court of Appeal affirmed the lower court’s ruling and held that we must comply with the preliminary injunction order no later than 30 days after the case is returned to the trial court. We filed a Petition for Review to the California Supreme Court on December 1, 2020, which was denied. In November 2020, California voters approved Proposition 22, a California state ballot initiative that provides a framework for drivers that use platforms like ours for independent work. Proposition 22 went into effect in December 2020 and we expect that Drivers will be able to maintain their status as independent contractors under California law and that we and our competitors will be required to comply with the provisions of Proposition 22. Although we do not expect that the California Attorney General’s preliminary injunction will go into effect, that litigation remains pending, and we intend to move to dissolve the preliminary injunction. We also may face liability relating to periods before the effective date of Proposition 22. In addition, in January 2021, a petition was filed with the California Supreme Court by several drivers and a labor union alleging that Proposition 22 is unconstitutional, which was denied. The same drivers and labor union have since filed a similar challenge in California Superior Court, and it is possible that other legal challenges to Proposition 22 could be filed. We face similar challenges in other jurisdictions. For example, in July 2020, the Massachusetts Attorney General filed a complaint against Uber and Lyft, alleging that drivers are misclassified, and seeking an injunction. If we do not prevail in current litigation or similar actions that may be brought in the future, we may be required to treat Drivers as employees and/or make other changes to our business model in certain jurisdictions. If, as a result of legislation or judicial decisions, we are required to classify Drivers as employees, we would incur significant additional expenses for compensating Drivers, including expenses associated with the application of wage and hour laws (including minimum wage, overtime, and meal and rest period requirements), employee benefits, social security contributions, taxes (direct and indirect), and potential penalties. In this case, we anticipate significant price increases for Riders to offset these additional costs; however, we believe that the financial impact to Uber would be moderated by the likelihood of all competitors raising prices. Additionally, we may not have adequate Driver supply as Drivers may opt out of our platform given the loss of flexibility under an employment model, and we may not be able to hire a majority of the Drivers currently using our platform. Further, any such reclassification would require us to fundamentally change our business model, and consequently have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, reclassification of Drivers as employees, workers or quasi-employees where those statuses exist, could lead to groups of Drivers becoming represented by labor unions and similar organizations. If a significant number of Drivers were to become unionized and collective bargaining agreement terms were to deviate significantly from our business model, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In addition, a labor dispute involving Drivers may harm our reputation, disrupt our operations and reduce our net revenues, and the resolution of labor disputes may increase our costs. In addition, if we are required to classify Drivers as employees, workers or quasi-employees, this may impact our current financial statement presentation including revenue, cost of revenue, incentives and promotions as further described in our significant and critical accounting policies in the section titled “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” included in Part I, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note 1 in the section titled “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot predict whether legislation similar to Assembly Bill 5 may be enacted elsewhere. Other examples of recent judicial 14 decisions relating to Driver classification include the Aslam, Farrar, Hoy and Mithu v. Uber B.V., et al. ruling by the Employment Appeal Tribunal in the United Kingdom, subsequently upheld by the UK Supreme Court, that found that those Drivers were workers (rather than self-employed), a decision by the French Supreme Court that a driver for a third-party meal delivery service was under a “subordinate relationship” of the service, indicating an employment relationship, a decision by the French Supreme Court that reclassified an UberX Driver as an employee, and decisions by several Swiss governmental bodies ruling that Drivers should be classified as employees for Swiss social security or regulatory purposes. The mobility, delivery, and logistics industries are highly competitive, with well-established and low-cost alternatives that have been available for decades, low barriers to entry, low switching costs, and well-capitalized competitors in nearly every major geographic region. If we are unable to compete effectively in these industries, our business and financial prospects would be adversely impacted. Our platform provides offerings in the mobility, delivery, and logistics industries. We compete on a global basis, and the markets in which we compete are highly fragmented. We face significant competition in each of the mobility and delivery industries globally and in the logistics industry in the United States and Canada from existing, well-established, and low-cost alternatives, and in the future we expect to face competition from new market entrants given the low barriers to entry that characterize these industries. In addition, within each of these markets, the cost to switch between products is low. Consumers have a propensity to shift to the lowest-cost or highest-quality provider; Drivers have a propensity to shift to the platform with the highest earnings potential; restaurants have a propensity to shift to the delivery platform that offers the lowest service fee for their meals and provides the highest volume of orders; and shippers and carriers have a propensity to shift to the platform with the best price and most convenient service for hauling shipments. Further, while we work to expand globally and introduce new products and offerings across a range of industries, many of our competitors remain focused on a limited number of products or on a narrow geographic scope, allowing them to develop specialized expertise and employ resources in a more targeted manner than we do. As we and our competitors introduce new products and offerings, and as existing products evolve, we expect to become subject to additional competition. In addition, our competitors may adopt certain of our product features, or may adopt innovations that Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, and carriers value more highly than ours, which would render our products less attractive or reduce our ability to differentiate our products. Increased competition could result in, among other things, a reduction of the revenue we generate from the use of our platform, the number of platform users, the frequency of use of our platform, and our margins. We face competition in each of our offerings, including: • Mobility . Our Mobility offering competes with personal vehicle ownership and usage, which accounts for the majority of passenger miles in the markets that we serve, and traditional transportation services, including taxicab companies and taxi-hailing services, livery and other car services. In addition, public transportation can be a superior substitute to our Mobility offering and in many cases, offers a faster and lower-cost travel option in many cities. We also compete with other ridesharing companies, including certain of our minority-owned affiliates, for Drivers and riders, including Lyft, OLA, Didi, Bolt, and our Yandex.Taxi joint venture. • Delivery . Our Delivery offering competes with numerous companies in the meal, grocery and other delivery space in various regions for Drivers, consumers, and merchants, including GrubHub, DoorDash, Deliveroo, Glovo, Rappi, iFood, Delivery Hero, Just Eat Takeaway, and Amazon. Our Delivery offering also competes with restaurants, including those that offer their own delivery and/or take-away (such as Domino’s), meal kit delivery services, grocery delivery services, and traditional grocers. • Freight. Our Freight offering competes with global and North American freight brokers such as C.H. Robinson, Total Quality Logistics, XPO Logistics, Convoy, Echo Global Logistics, Coyote, Transfix, DHL, and NEXT Trucking. In May 2020, we divested certain assets of our dockless e-bikes and scooters business to Lime and concurrently entered into a commercial partnership with Lime. In December 2020, we announced that we entered into a definitive agreement in connection with the ATG Transactions. In January 2021, we completed the sale of Apparate USA LLC, our subsidiary focused on the development and commercialization of autonomous vehicles technologies, to Aurora Innovation, Inc. (“Aurora”) and made a $400 million cash investment in Aurora and entered into a collaboration agreement with Aurora pursuant to which the parties will collaborate with respect to the launch and commercialization of self-driving vehicles on our ridesharing network (the “ATG Transactions”). Many of our competitors are well-capitalized and offer discounted services, Driver incentives, consumer discounts and promotions, innovative products and offerings, and alternative pricing models, which may be more attractive to consumers than those that we offer. Further, some of our current or potential competitors have, and may in the future continue to have, greater resources and access to larger Driver, consumer, merchant, shipper, or carrier bases in a particular geographic market. In addition, our competitors in certain geographic markets enjoy substantial competitive advantages such as greater brand recognition, longer operating histories, larger marketing budgets, better localized knowledge, and more supportive regulatory regimes. As a result, such competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than us in such markets to new or changing opportunities, technologies, consumer preferences, regulations, or standards, which may render our products or offerings less attractive. In addition, future competitors may 15 share in the effective benefit of any regulatory or governmental approvals and litigation victories we may achieve, without having to incur the costs we have incurred to obtain such benefits. We are contractually restricted from competing with our minority-owned affiliates with respect to certain aspects of our business, including in China through August 2023, Russia/CIS through February 2025, Southeast Asia through the later of March 2023 or one year after we dispose of all interests in Grab, India with respect to meal delivery through January 2023, the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and certain parts of Europe with respect to e-bikes and e-scooters through May 2023, the European Economic Area (the “EEA”) with respect to digital freight forwarding through April 2023, and the United States with respect to electric vertical take-off and landing (“eVTOL”) aircraft through January 2023, while none of our minority-owned affiliates are restricted from competing with us anywhere in the world. Didi currently competes with us in certain countries in Latin America and in Australia. In addition, our Yandex.Taxi joint venture currently competes with us in certain countries in Europe and Africa. As Didi and our other minority-owned affiliates continue to expand their businesses, they may in the future compete with us in additional geographic markets. In addition, we are contractually restricted from competing with some of our majority-owned affiliates with respect to certain aspects of our business, including competing against Uber Freight with respect to freight brokerage, and competing against Cornershop with respect to online grocery delivery. Additionally, if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval of our acquisitions, we may not ultimately consummate the transaction in such jurisdictions where antitrust approval is not obtained. Further, in all or such jurisdictions where antitrust approval has not been granted, we may be required to divest all or part of our or the target company’s operations. Any such divestiture could bring additional competition to these markets. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors. Our inability to compete effectively would have an adverse effect on, or otherwise harm, our business, financial condition, and operating results. To remain competitive in certain markets, we have in the past lowered, are currently lowering, and may continue to lower, fares or service fees, and we have in the past offered, and may continue to offer, significant Driver incentives and consumer discounts and promotions, which has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our financial performance. To remain competitive in certain markets and generate network scale and liquidity, we have in the past lowered, and expect in the future to continue to lower, fares or service fees, and we have offered and expect to continue to offer significant Driver incentives and consumer discounts and promotions. At times, in certain geographic markets, we have offered, and expect to continue to offer, Driver incentives that cause the total amount of the fare that a Driver retains, combined with the Driver incentives a Driver receives from us, to increase, at times meeting or exceeding the amount of Gross Bookings we generate for a given Trip. In certain geographic markets and regions, we do not have a leading category position, which may result in us choosing to further increase the amount of Driver incentives and consumer discounts and promotions that we offer in those geographic markets and regions. We cannot assure you that offering such Driver incentives and consumer discounts and promotions will be successful. Driver incentives, consumer discounts, promotions, and reductions in fares and our service fee have negatively affected, and will continue to negatively affect, our financial performance. Additionally, we rely on pricing models to calculate consumer fares and Driver earnings, which have been modified over time and will likely in the future be modified, and pricing models at times vary based upon jurisdiction. We cannot assure you that our pricing models or strategies will be successful in attracting consumers and Drivers. For example, recent changes we have made in California to the information that Drivers see in the application, as well as pricing and offer structure changes, have adversely impacted usage of the application. If we are unable to successfully manage these and similar kinds of changes in the future, our business may be adversely impacted. The markets in which we compete have attracted significant investments from a wide range of funding sources, and we anticipate that many of our competitors will continue to be highly capitalized. Moreover, certain of our stockholders, including SoftBank (our largest stockholder), have made substantial investments in certain of our competitors and may increase such investments, make new investments in other competitors, or enter into strategic transactions with competitors in the future. These investments or strategic transactions, along with other competitive advantages discussed above, may allow our competitors to compete more effectively against us and continue to lower their prices, offer Driver incentives or consumer discounts and promotions, or otherwise attract Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, and carriers to their platform and away from ours. Such competitive pressures may lead us to maintain or lower fares or service fees or maintain or increase our Driver incentives and consumer discounts and promotions. Ridesharing and other categories in which we compete are nascent, and we cannot guarantee that they will stabilize at a competitive equilibrium that will allow us to achieve profitability. We have incurred significant losses since inception, including in the United States and other major markets. We expect our operating expenses to increase significantly in the foreseeable future, and we may not achieve profitability. We have incurred significant losses since inception. We incurred operating losses of $3.0 billion, $8.6 billion and $4.9 billion in the years ended December 31, 2018, 2019 and 2020, and as of December 31, 2020, we had an accumulated deficit of $23.1 billion. We will need to generate and sustain increased revenue levels and decrease proportionate expenses in future periods to achieve profitability in many of our largest markets, including in the United States, and even if we do, we may not be able to maintain or increase profitability. We anticipate that we will continue to incur losses in the near term as a result of expected substantial increases in our operating expenses, as we continue to invest in order to: increase the number of Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, and 16 carriers using our platform through incentives, discounts, and promotions; expand within existing or into new markets; increase our research and development expenses; expand marketing channels and operations; hire additional employees; and add new products and offerings to our platform. These efforts may prove more expensive than we anticipate, and we may not succeed in increasing our revenue sufficiently to offset these expenses. Many of our efforts to generate revenue are new and unproven, and any failure to adequately increase revenue or contain the related costs could prevent us from attaining or increasing profitability. In addition, we sometimes introduce new products that we expect to add value to our overall platform and network but which we expect will generate lower Gross Bookings per Trip or a lower Take Rate. Further, we charge a lower service fee to certain of our largest chain restaurant partners on our Delivery offering to grow the number of Delivery consumers, which may at times result in a negative take rate with respect to those transactions after considering amounts collected from consumers and paid to Drivers. As we expand our offerings to additional cities, our offerings in these cities may be less profitable than the markets in which we currently operate. As such, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the near term, in accordance with our expectations, or at all. Additionally, we may not realize the operating efficiencies we expect to achieve as a result of our acquisition of Careem and Postmates, and may continue to incur significant operating losses in the United States, Middle East, North Africa, and Pakistan in the future. Even if we do experience operating efficiencies, our operating results may not improve, at least in the near term. If we are unable to attract or maintain a critical mass of Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, and carriers, whether as a result of competition or other factors, our platform will become less appealing to platform users, and our financial results would be adversely impacted. Our success in a given geographic market significantly depends on our ability to maintain or increase our network scale and liquidity in that geographic market by attracting Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, and carriers to our platform. If Drivers choose not to offer their services through our platform, or elect to offer them through a competitor’s platform, we may lack a sufficient supply of Drivers to attract consumers and merchants to our platform. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience Driver supply constraints in most geographic markets in which we operate, and such supply constraints have been and may continue to be impacted by concerns regarding the outbreak of COVID-19. To the extent that we experience Driver supply constraints in a given market, we may need to increase or may not be able to reduce the Driver incentives that we offer without adversely affecting the liquidity network effect that we experience in that market. Similarly, if carriers choose not to offer their services through our platform or elect to use other freight brokers, we may lack a sufficient supply of carriers in specific geographic markets to attract shippers to our platform. Furthermore, if restaurants choose to partner with other meal delivery services in a specific geographic market, or if merchants choose to engage exclusively with our competitors, other merchant marketing websites, or other delivery services, we may lack a sufficient variety and supply of restaurant options, or lack access to the most popular restaurants, such that our Delivery offering will become less appealing to consumers and restaurants. A significant amount of our Delivery Gross Bookings come from a limited number of large restaurant groups, and this concentration increases the risk of fluctuations in our operating results and our sensitivity to any material adverse developments experienced by our significant restaurant partners. If platform users choose to use other ridesharing, meal delivery, or logistics services, we may lack sufficient opportunities for Drivers to earn a fare, carriers to book a shipment, or restaurants to provide a meal, which may reduce the perceived utility of our platform. An insufficient supply of platform users would decrease our network liquidity and adversely affect our revenue and financial results. Although we may benefit from having larger network scale and liquidity than some competitors, those network effects may not result in competitive advantages or may be overcome by smaller competitors. Maintaining a balance between supply and demand for rides in any given area at any given time and our ability to execute operationally may be more important to service quality than the absolute size of the network. If our service quality diminishes or our competitors’ products achieve greater market adoption, our competitors may be able to grow at a quicker rate than we do and may diminish our network effect. Our number of platform users may decline materially or fluctuate as a result of many factors, including, among other things, dissatisfaction with the operation of our platform, the price of fares, meals, and shipments (including a reduction in incentives), dissatisfaction with the quality of service provided by the Drivers and merchants on our platform, quality of platform user support, dissatisfaction with the restaurant selection on Delivery, negative publicity related to our brand, including as a result of safety incidents and corporate reporting related to safety, perceived political or geopolitical affiliations, a pandemic or an outbreak of disease or similar public health concern, such as the current COVID-19 pandemic, or fear of such an event, treatment of Drivers, perception of a toxic work culture, perception that our culture has not fundamentally changed, dissatisfaction with changes we make to our products and offerings, or dissatisfaction with our products and offerings in general. In addition, if we are unable to provide high-quality support to platform users or respond to reported incidents, including safety incidents, in a timely and acceptable manner, our ability to attract and retain platform users could be adversely affected. If Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, and carriers do not establish or maintain active accounts with us, if a social media or other campaign encouraging users to cease use of our platform takes hold, if we fail to provide high-quality support, or if we cannot otherwise attract and retain a large number of Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, and carriers, our revenue would decline, and our business would suffer. The number of Drivers and merchants on our platform could decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including Drivers ceasing to provide their services through our platform, passage or enforcement of local laws limiting our products and offerings, the low switching costs between competitor platforms or services, and dissatisfaction with our brand or reputation, pricing models (including potential reductions in incentives), ability to prevent safety incidents, or other aspects of our business. While we aim to provide an earnings opportunity comparable to that available in retail, wholesale, or merchant services or other similar work, 17 we continue to experience dissatisfaction with our platform from a significant number of Drivers. In particular, as we aim to reduce Driver incentives to improve our financial performance, we expect Driver dissatisfaction will generally increase. Often, we are forced to make tradeoffs between the satisfaction of various platform users, as a change that one category of users views as positive will likely be viewed as negative to another category of users. We also take certain measures to protect against fraud, help increase safety, and prevent privacy and security breaches, including terminating access to our platform for users with low ratings or reported incidents, and imposing certain qualifications for Drivers and merchants, which may damage our relationships with platform users or discourage or diminish their use of our platform. Further, we are investing in our autonomous vehicle strategy, which may add to Driver dissatisfaction over time, as it may reduce the need for Drivers. Driver dissatisfaction has in the past resulted in protests by Drivers in various regions, including India, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Such protests have resulted, and any future protests may result, in interruptions to our business. Continued Driver dissatisfaction may also result in a decline in our number of platform users, which would reduce our network liquidity, and which in turn may cause a further decline in platform usage. Any decline in the number of Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, or carriers using our platform would reduce the value of our network and would harm our future operating results. In addition, changes in Driver qualification and background-check requirements may increase our costs and reduce our ability to onboard additional Drivers to our platform. Our Driver qualification and background check process varies by jurisdiction, and there have been allegations, including from regulators, legislators, prosecutors, taxicab owners, and consumers, that our background check process is insufficient or inadequate. With respect to Drivers who are only eligible to make deliveries through Delivery, our qualification and background check standards are generally less extensive than the standards for Drivers who are eligible to provide rides through our Mobility products. Legislators and regulators may pass laws or adopt regulations in the future requiring Drivers to undergo a materially different type of qualification, screening, or background check process, or that limit our ability to access information used in the background check process in an efficient manner, which could be costly and time-consuming. Required changes in the qualification, screening, and background check process (including any changes to such processes of Careem or Postmates) could also reduce the number of Drivers in those markets or extend the time required to recruit new Drivers to our platform, which would adversely impact our business and growth. Furthermore, we rely on a single background-check provider in certain jurisdictions, and we may not be able to arrange for adequate background checks from a different provider on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The failure of this provider to provide background checks on a timely basis would result in our inability to onboard new Drivers or retain existing Drivers undergoing periodic background checks that are required to continue using our platform. Our workplace culture and forward-leaning approach created operational, compliance, and cultural challenges, and a failure to address these challenges would adversely impact our business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects. Our workplace culture and forward-leaning approach created significant operational and cultural challenges that have in the past harmed, and may in the future continue to harm, our business results and financial condition. Our focus on aggressive growth and intense competition, and our prior failure to prioritize compliance, has led to increased regulatory scrutiny globally. Changes in our company’s cultural norms and composition of our leadership team, together with our ongoing commitment to address and resolve our historical cultural and compliance problems and promote transparency and collaboration, may not be successful, and regulators may continue to perceive us negatively, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects. Our workplace culture also created a lack of transparency internally, which has resulted in siloed teams that lack coordination and knowledge sharing, causing misalignment and inefficiencies in operational and strategic objectives. Although we have embraced a culture of enhanced transparency under our new management, these efforts may not be successful. Furthermore, many of our regional operations are not centrally managed, such that key policies may not be adequately communicated or managed to achieve consistent business objectives across functions and regions. Although we have reorganized some of our teams to address such issues, such reorganizations may not be successful in aligning operational or strategic objectives across our company. Maintaining and enhancing our brand and reputation is critical to our business prospects. We have previously received significant media coverage and negative publicity regarding our brand and reputation, and failure to rehabilitate our brand and reputation will cause our business to suffer. Maintaining and enhancing our brand and reputation is critical to our ability to attract new employees and platform users, to preserve and deepen the engagement of our existing employees and platform users, and to mitigate legislative or regulatory scrutiny, litigation, government investigations, and adverse platform user sentiment. We have previously received a high degree of negative media coverage around the world, which has adversely affected our brand and reputation and fueled distrust of our company. Previous negative publicity, particularly as a result of cultural issues in 2017, has adversely affected our brand and reputation, which makes it difficult for us to attract and retain platform users, reduces confidence in and use of our products and offerings, invites legislative and regulatory scrutiny, and results in litigation and governmental investigations. Concurrently with and after these events, our competitors raised additional capital, increased their investments in certain markets, and improved their category positions and market shares, and may continue to do so. In 2019, we released a safety report, which provides the public with data related to reports of sexual assaults and other critical 18 safety incidents claimed to have occurred on our platform in the United States. The continuing public responses to this safety report or any future safety reports or similar public reporting of safety incidents claimed to have occurred on our platform, which may include disclosure of reports provided to regulators and other government authorities, may continue to result in positive and negative media coverage and increased regulatory scrutiny and could adversely affect our reputation with platform users. Further unfavorable media coverage and negative publicity could adversely impact our financial results and future prospects. As our platform continues to scale and becomes increasingly interconnected, resulting in increased media coverage and public awareness of our brand, future damage to our brand and reputation could have an amplified effect on our various platform offerings. Additionally, with respect to our acquisition of Careem and our acquisition of Postmates, the Careem and Postmates brands and each of its apps will continue to operate in parallel with our brand and apps, and any damage or reputational harm to the Careem or Postmates brand could adversely impact our brand and reputation. Our brand and reputation might also be harmed by events outside of our control. For example, we have licensed our brand to Didi in China, to our Yandex.Taxi joint venture in Russia/CIS, and to Zomato in India, and while we have certain contractual protections in place governing the use of our brand by these companies, we do not control these businesses, we are not able to anticipate their actions, and consumers may not be aware that these service providers are not controlled by us. Furthermore, if Drivers, merchants, or carriers provide diminished quality of service, are involved in incidents regarding safety or privacy, engage in malfeasance, or otherwise violate the law, we may receive unfavorable press coverage and our reputation and business may be harmed. As a result, any of these third parties could take actions that result in harm to our brand, reputation, and consequently our business. While we have taken significant steps to rehabilitate our brand and reputation, the successful rehabilitation of our brand will depend largely on maintaining a good reputation, minimizing the number of safety incidents, improving our culture and workplace practices, improving our compliance programs, maintaining a high quality of service and ethical behavior, and continuing our marketing and public relations efforts. Our brand promotion, reputation building, and media strategies have involved significant costs and may not be successful. We anticipate that other competitors and potential competitors will expand their offerings, which will make maintaining and enhancing our reputation and brand increasingly more difficult and expensive. If we fail to successfully rehabilitate our brand in the current or future competitive environment or if events occur in the future which negatively affect public perception of our company, our brand and reputation would be further damaged and our business may suffer. Our workforce and operations have grown substantially since our inception and we have implemented several reductions in workforce in 2019 and 2020. If we are unable to optimize our organizational structure or effectively manage our growth or any reductions in workforce, our financial performance and future prospects will be adversely affected. Since our inception, we have experienced rapid growth in the United States and internationally. This expansion increases the complexity of our business and has placed, and will continue to place, significant strain on our management, personnel, operations, systems, technical performance, financial resources, and internal financial control and reporting functions. We may not be able to manage our growth effectively, which could damage our reputation and negatively affect our operating results. As our operations have expanded, we have grown from 159 employees as of December 31, 2012 to approximately 22,800 global employees as of December 31, 2020, of whom approximately 12,400 were located outside the United States. We expect the total number of our employees located outside the United States to increase as we expand globally. Properly managing our growth will require us to continue to hire, train, and manage qualified employees and staff, including engineers, operations personnel, financial and accounting staff, and sales and marketing staff, and to improve and maintain our technology. If our new hires perform poorly, if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing, and integrating new employees and staff, or if we are not successful in retaining our existing employees and staff, our business may be harmed. Moreover, in order to optimize our organizational structure, we have implemented several reductions in workforce and restructurings, including in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on our business, and may in the future implement other reductions in workforce. Any reduction in workforce or restructuring may yield unintended consequences and costs, such as attrition beyond the intended reduction in workforce, the distraction of employees, or reduced employee morale and could adversely affect our reputation as an employer, which could make it more difficult for us to hire new employees in the future and increase the risk that we may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the reduction in workforce. Properly managing our growth or any reductions in workforce will require us to establish consistent policies across regions and functions, and a failure to do so could likewise harm our business. Our failure to upgrade our technology or network infrastructure effectively to support our growth could result in unanticipated system disruptions, slow response times, or poor experiences for Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, and carriers. To manage the growth of our operations and personnel and improve the technology that supports our business operations, as well as our financial and management systems, disclosure controls and procedures, and internal controls over financial reporting, we will be required to commit substantial financial, operational, and technical resources. In particular, we will need to improve our transaction processing and reporting, operational, and financial systems, procedures, and controls. For example, due to our significant growth, especially with respect to our high-growth emerging offerings like Delivery and Freight, we face challenges in timely and appropriately designing controls in response to evolving risks of material misstatement. These improvements are and will be particularly challenging when we acquire new businesses with different systems, such as Careem, Routematch, Cornershop and Postmates. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures, and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. If we are unable to expand our operations and hire additional qualified personnel in an efficient manner, or if our operational technology is insufficient to reliably 19 service Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, or carriers, platform user satisfaction will be adversely affected and may cause platform users to switch to our competitors’ platforms, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our organizational structure is complex and will continue to grow as we add additional Drivers, consumers, merchants, carriers, shippers, employees, products and offerings, and technologies, and as we continue to expand globally. We will need to improve our operational, financial, and management controls as well as our reporting systems and procedures to support the growth of our organizational structure. We will require capital and management resources to grow and mature in these areas. If we are unable to effectively manage the growth of our business, the quality of our platform may suffer, and we may be unable to address competitive challenges, which would adversely affect our overall business, operations, and financial condition. If platform users engage in, or are subject to, criminal, violent, inappropriate, or dangerous activity that results in major safety incidents, our ability to attract and retain Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, and carriers may be harmed, which could have an adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition, and operating results. We are not able to control or predict the actions of platform users and third parties, either during their use of our platform or otherwise, and we may be unable to protect or provide a safe environment for Drivers and consumers as a result of certain actions by Drivers, consumers, merchants, carriers, and third parties. Such actions may result in injuries, property damage, or loss of life for consumers and third parties, or business interruption, brand and reputational damage, or significant liabilities for us. Although we administer certain qualification processes for users of our platform, including background checks on Drivers through third-party service providers, these qualification processes and background checks may not expose all potentially relevant information and are limited in certain jurisdictions according to national and local laws, and our third-party service providers may fail to conduct such background checks adequately or disclose information that could be relevant to a determination of eligibility. Further, the qualification and background check standards for Delivery People are generally less extensive than those conducted for Mobility Drivers. In addition, we do not independently test Drivers’ driving skills. Consequently, we expect to continue to receive complaints from riders and other consumers, as well as actual or threatened legal action against us related to Driver conduct. We have also faced civil litigation alleging, among other things, inadequate Driver qualification processes and background checks, and general misrepresentations regarding the safety of our platform. If Drivers or carriers, or individuals impersonating Drivers or carriers, engage in criminal activity, misconduct, or inappropriate conduct or use our platform as a conduit for criminal activity, consumers and shippers may not consider our products and offerings safe, and we may receive negative press coverage as a result of our business relationship with such Driver or carrier, which would adversely impact our brand, reputation, and business. There have been numerous incidents and allegations worldwide of Drivers, or individuals impersonating Drivers, sexually assaulting, abusing, kidnapping and/or fatally injuring consumers, or otherwise engaging in criminal activity while using our platform or claiming to use our platform. Furthermore, if consumers engage in criminal activity or misconduct while using our platform, Drivers and merchants may be unwilling to continue using our platform. In addition, certain regions where we operate have high rates of violent crime, which has impacted Drivers and consumers in those regions. For example, in Latin America, there have been numerous and increasing reports of Drivers and consumers being victimized by violent crime, such as armed robbery, violent assault, and rape, while taking or providing a trip on our platform. If other criminal, inappropriate, or other negative incidents occur due to the conduct of platform users or third parties, our ability to attract platform users may be harmed, and our business and financial results could be adversely affected. Public reporting or disclosure of reported safety information, including information about safety incidents reportedly occurring on or related to our platform, whether generated by us or third parties such as media or regulators, may adversely impact our business and financial results. Further, we may be subject to claims of significant liability based on traffic accidents, deaths, injuries, or other incidents that are caused by Drivers, consumers, or third parties while using our platform, or even when Drivers, consumers, or third parties are not actively using our platform. On a smaller scale, we may face litigation related to claims by Drivers for the actions of consumers or third parties. Our auto liability and general liability insurance policies may not cover all potential claims to which we are exposed, and may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability. These incidents may subject us to liability and negative publicity, which would increase our operating costs and adversely affect our business, operating results, and future prospects. Even if these claims do not result in liability, we will incur significant costs in investigating and defending against them. As we expand our products and offerings, such as Freight, this insurance risk will grow. We are making substantial investments in new offerings and technologies, and may increase such investments in the future. These new ventures are inherently risky, and we may never realize any expected benefits from them. We have made substantial investments to develop new offerings and technologies, and we intend to continue investing significant resources in developing new technologies, tools, features, services, products and offerings. For example, through our majority investment in Cornershop, a provider of online grocery delivery in Mexico and Chile, we expanded our Delivery offering to grocery delivery. Additionally, in February 2021, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire The Drizly Group, Inc., which operates an on-demand alcohol marketplace in North America, in order to further expand our Delivery offering to alcohol. We also plan to invest significant resources to develop and expand new offerings and technologies in the markets in which Careem and Postmates operate. If 20 we do not spend our development budget efficiently or effectively on commercially successful and innovative technologies, we may not realize the expected benefits of our strategy. Our new initiatives also have a high degree of risk, as each involves nascent industries and unproven business strategies and technologies with which we have limited or no prior development or operating experience. Because such offerings and technologies are new, they will likely involve claims and liabilities (including, but not limited to, personal injury claims), expenses, regulatory challenges, and other risks, some of which we do not currently anticipate. There can be no assurance that consumer demand for such initiatives will exist or be sustained at the levels that we anticipate, or that any of these initiatives will gain sufficient traction or market acceptance to generate sufficient revenue to offset any new expenses or liabilities associated with these new investments. It is also possible that products and offerings developed by others will render our products and offerings noncompetitive or obsolete. Further, our development efforts with respect to new products, offerings and technologies could distract management from current operations, and will divert capital and other resources from our more established products, offerings and technologies. Even if we are successful in developing new products, offerings or technologies, regulatory authorities may subject us to new rules or restrictions in response to our innovations that could increase our expenses or prevent us from successfully commercializing new products, offerings or technologies. If we do not realize the expected benefits of our investments, our business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects may be harmed. Our business is substantially dependent on operations outside the United States, including those in markets in which we have limited experience, and if we are unable to manage the risks presented by our business model internationally, our financial results and future prospects will be adversely impacted. As of December 31, 2020, we operated in approximately 71 countries, and markets outside the United States accounted for approximately 79% of all Trips. We have limited experience operating in many jurisdictions outside of the United States and have made, and expect to continue to make, significant investments to expand our international operations and compete with local competitors. For example, in January 2020, we completed our acquisition of Careem in jurisdictions where we have received regulatory approval, and in October 2019, we announced a majority investment in Cornershop, a provider of online grocery delivery in Mexico and Chile, and closed such investment as to Chile in July 2020 and as to Mexico in January 2021. Such investments may not be successful and may negatively affect our operating results. Conducting our business internationally, particularly in countries in which we have limited experience, subjects us to risks that we do not face to the same degree in the United States. These risks include, among others: • operational and compliance challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences; • the resources required to localize our business, which requires the translation of our mobile app and website into foreign languages and the adaptation of our operations to local practices, laws, and regulations and any changes in such practices, laws, and regulations; • laws and regulations more restrictive than those in the United States, including laws governing competition, pricing, payment methods, Internet activities, transportation services (such as taxis and vehicles for hire), transportation network companies (such as ridesharing), logistics services, payment processing and payment gateways, real estate tenancy laws, tax and social security laws, employment and labor laws, driver screening and background checks, licensing regulations, email messaging, privacy, location services, collection, use, processing, or sharing of personal information, ownership of intellectual property, and other activities important to our business; • competition with companies or other services (such as taxis or vehicles for hire) that understand local markets better than we do, that have pre-existing relationships with potential platform users in those markets, or that are favored by government or regulatory authorities in those markets; • differing levels of social acceptance of our brand, products, and offerings; • differing levels of technological compatibility with our platform; • exposure to business cultures in which improper business practices may be prevalent; • legal uncertainty regarding our liability for the actions of platform users and third parties, including uncertainty resulting from unique local laws or a lack of clear legal precedent; • difficulties in managing, growing, and staffing international operations, including in countries in which foreign employees may become part of labor unions, employee representative bodies, or collective bargaining agreements, and challenges relating to work stoppages or slowdowns; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • managing operations in markets in which cash transactions are favored over credit or debit cards; • regulations governing the control of local currencies that impact our ability to collect fares on behalf of Drivers and remit those funds to Drivers in the same currencies, as well as higher levels of credit risk and payment fraud; 21 • adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax systems, and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; • increased financial accounting and reporting burdens, and complexities associated with implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls; • difficulties in implementing and maintaining the financial systems and processes needed to enable compliance across multiple offerings and jurisdictions; • import and export restrictions and changes in trade regulation; • political, social, and economic instability abroad, terrorist attacks and security concerns in general, and societal crime conditions that can directly impact platform users; • public health concerns or emergencies, such as the current COVID-19 pandemic and other highly communicable diseases or viruses, outbreaks of which have from time to time occurred in various parts of the world in which we operate; and • reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some markets. These risks could adversely affect our international operations, which could in turn adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. We have limited influence over our minority-owned affiliates, which subjects us to substantial risks, including potential loss of value. Our growth strategy has included the restructuring of our business and assets in certain jurisdictions by partnering with and investing in local ridesharing and meal delivery companies to participate in those markets rather than operate in those markets independently. As a result, a significant portion of our assets includes minority ownership positions in each of Didi, Grab, our Yandex.Taxi joint venture, Lime and Zomato. Each of Didi, Grab and our Yandex.Taxi joint venture operates ridesharing, meal delivery, and related logistics businesses in their primary markets in China, Southeast Asia, and Russia/CIS, respectively, Lime operates an e-bikes and e-scooters in the United States, Canada and parts of Europe, Asia, Latin America, Australia and New Zealand, and Zomato operates a meal delivery business in India. Our ownership in these entities involves significant risks that are outside our control. We are not represented on the management team or board of directors of Didi or Zomato, and therefore we do not participate in the day-to-day management of Didi or Zomato or the actions taken by the board of directors of Didi and Zomato. We are not represented on the management teams of Grab or our Yandex.Taxi joint venture, and therefore do not participate in the day-to-day management of Grab or our Yandex.Taxi joint venture. Although we are represented on each of the boards of directors of Grab, our Yandex.Taxi joint venture and Lime, we do not have a controlling influence on those boards, other than with respect to certain approval rights over material corporate actions. As a result, the boards of directors or management teams of these companies may make decisions or take actions with which we disagree or that may be harmful to the value of our ownership in these companies. Additionally, these companies have expanded their offerings, and we expect them to continue to expand their offerings in the future, to compete with us in various markets throughout the world such as in certain countries in Latin America and in Australia where we compete with Didi and certain countries in Europe where we compete with our Yandex.Taxi joint venture. While this could enhance the value of our ownership interest in these companies, our business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects would be adversely affected by such expansion into markets in which we operate. Further, in January 2021, we completed the ATG Transactions, which resulted in our ATG business merging with Aurora, an entity in which we are not represented on the management team and in which we do not have a controlling influence on the board. Any material decline in the business of these entities would adversely affect the value of our assets and our financial results. Furthermore, the value of these assets is based in part on the market valuations of these entities, and weakened financial markets have adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect such valuations. These positions could expose us to risks, litigation, and unknown liabilities because, among other things, these companies have limited operating histories in an evolving industry and may have less predictable operating results; are privately owned and, as a result, limited public information is available and we may not learn all the material information regarding these businesses; are domiciled and operate in countries with particular economic, tax, political, legal, safety, regulatory and public health risks, including the extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on their business; depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of individuals, and, as a result, the death, disability, resignation, or termination of one or more of these individuals could have an adverse effect on the relevant company’s operations; and will likely require substantial additional capital to support their operations and expansion and to maintain their competitive positions. Any of these risks could materially affect the value of our assets, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, or the trading price of our common stock. Further, we are contractually limited in our ability to sell or transfer these assets. While we are not prohibited from transferring our shares in Didi or Grab, the transferability of such shares are subject to both a right of first refusal and a co-sale right in favor of certain shareholders of each of Didi and Grab. There is currently no public market for any of these securities, and there may be no market in the future if and when we decide to sell such assets. Furthermore, we may be required to sell these assets at a time at which we would not be able to realize what we believe to be the long-term value of these assets. For example, if we were deemed an 22 investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”), we may be required to sell some or all of such assets so that we would not be subject to the requirements of the Investment Company Act. Additionally, we may have to pay significant taxes upon the sale or transfer of these assets. Accordingly, we may never realize the value of these assets relative to the contributions we made to these businesses. We may experience significant fluctuations in our operating results. If we are unable to achieve or sustain profitability, our prospects would be adversely affected and investors may lose some or all of the value of their investment. Our operating results may vary significantly and are not necessarily an indication of future performance. These fluctuations may be a result of a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as the current COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, we experience seasonal fluctuations in our financial results. For Mobility, we typically generate higher revenue in our fourth quarter compared to other quarters due in part to fourth quarter holiday and business demand, and typically generate lower revenue in our third quarter compared to other quarters due in part to less usage of our platform during peak vacation season in certain cities, such as Paris. We have typically experienced lower quarter-over-quarter growth in Mobility in the first quarter. In 2020, we experienced less seasonality as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and related restrictions, which altered typical travel patterns. For Delivery, we expect to experience seasonal increases in our revenue in the first and fourth quarters compared to the second and third quarters, although the historical growth of Delivery has masked these seasonal fluctuations; however, in 2020, we experienced less seasonality as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and related restrictions, which accelerated the growth of Delivery in 2020 as cities imposed dining restrictions and shelter in place orders. Our growth has made, and may in the future make, seasonal fluctuations difficult to detect. We expect these seasonal trends to become more pronounced over time as our growth slows. Other seasonal trends may develop or these existing seasonal trends may become more extreme, which would contribute to fluctuations in our operating results. In addition to seasonality, our operating results may fluctuate as a result of factors including our ability to attract and retain new platform users, increased competition in the markets in which we operate, our ability to expand our operations in new and existing markets, our ability to maintain an adequate growth rate and effectively manage that growth, our ability to keep pace with technological changes in the industries in which we operate, changes in governmental or other regulations affecting our business, harm to our brand or reputation, and other risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As such, we may not accurately forecast our operating results. We base our expense levels and investment plans on estimates, which has become more challenging in light of the COVID-19 pandemic. A significant portion of our expenses and investments are fixed, and we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough if our revenue is less than expected, resulting in losses that exceed our expectations. If we are unable to achieve sustained profits, our prospects would be adversely affected and investors may lose some or all of the value of their investment. If our growth slows more significantly than we currently expect, we may not be able to achieve profitability, which would adversely affect our financial results and future prospects. Our Gross Bookings and revenue growth rates (in particular with respect to our ridesharing products) have slowed in recent periods, and we expect that they will continue to slow in the future. We believe that our growth depends on a number of factors, including the duration and severity of the COVID-19 pandemic and our ability to: • grow supply and demand on our platform; • increase existing platform users’ activity on our platform; • continue to introduce our platform to new markets; • provide high-quality support to Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, and carriers; • expand our business and increase our market share and category position; • compete with the products and offerings of, and pricing and incentives offered by, our competitors; • develop new products, offerings, and technologies; • identify and acquire or invest in businesses, products, offerings, or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our platform; • penetrate suburban and rural areas and increase the number of rides taken on our platform outside metropolitan areas; • reduce the costs of our Mobility offering to better compete with personal vehicle ownership and usage and other low-cost alternatives like public transportation, which in many cases can be faster or cheaper than any other form of transportation; • maintain existing local regulations in key markets where we operate; • enter or expand operations in some of the key countries in which we are currently limited by local regulations, such as Argentina, Germany, Italy, Japan, South Korea, and Spain; and • increase positive perception of our brand. We may not successfully accomplish any of these objectives. In addition, circumstances that have accelerated the growth of our 23 Delivery offering stemming from continued stay-at-home order demand related to COVID-19 may not continue in the future. A softening of Driver, consumer, merchant, shipper, or carrier demand, whether caused by changes in the preferences of such parties, failure to maintain our brand, changes in the U.S. or global economies, licensing fees in various jurisdictions, competition, or other factors, may result in decreased revenue or growth and our financial results and future prospects would be adversely impacted. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses, and if we cannot increase our revenue at a faster rate than the increase in our expenses, we will not achieve profitability. We generate a significant percentage of our Gross Bookings from trips in large metropolitan areas and trips to and from airports. If our operations in large metropolitan areas or ability to provide trips to and from airports are negatively affected, our financial results and future prospects would be adversely impacted. In 2020, we derived 22% of our Mobility Gross Bookings from five metropolitan areas—Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York City in the United States, Sao Paulo in Brazil, and London in the United Kingdom. We experience greater competition in large metropolitan areas than we do in other markets in which we operate, which has led us to offer significant Driver incentives and consumer discounts and promotions in these large metropolitan areas. As a result of our geographic concentration, our business and financial results are susceptible to economic, social, weather, and regulatory conditions or other circumstances in each of these large metropolitan areas. Outbreaks of contagious diseases or other viruses, such as COVID-19, could lead to a sustained decline in the desirability of living, working and congregating in metropolitan areas in which we operate. Any short-term or long-term shifts in the travel patterns of consumers away from metropolitan areas, due to health concerns regarding epidemics or pandemics such as COVID-19, could have an adverse impact on our Mobility Gross Bookings from these areas. An economic downturn, increased competition, or regulatory obstacles in any of these key metropolitan areas would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results to a much greater degree than would the occurrence of such events in other areas. In addition, any changes to local laws or regulations within these key metropolitan areas that affect our ability to operate or increase our operating expenses in these markets would have an adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, if we are unable to renew existing licenses or do not receive new licenses in key metropolitan areas where we operate or such licenses are terminated, any inability to operate in such metropolitan area, as well as the publicity concerning any such termination or non-renewal, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, in August 2018, New York City approved regulations for the local for-hire market (which includes our ridesharing products), including a cap on the number of new vehicle licenses issued to drivers who offer for-hire services. In December 2018, New York City implemented a per-mile and per-minute minimum trip payment formula, designed to establish a minimum pay standard, for drivers providing for-hire services in New York City, such as those provided by Drivers on our platform These minimum rates took effect in February 2019. Since implementation, these regulations have had an adverse impact on our financial performance in New York City and may continue to do so in the future. In August 2019, New York City issued a regulation to limit how much time drivers providing ride-hailing services can spend cruising streets in busy areas of Manhattan without passengers. In December 2019, a New York state judge struck down this regulation, which was to come into effect in February 2020. New York City is appealing this ruling. Additionally, in November 2019, a ballot measure to impose a surcharge on ridesharing trips in San Francisco was approved by voters in San Francisco. This surcharge took effect on January 1, 2020. In addition, other jurisdictions such as Seattle have in the past considered or may consider regulations that would implement minimum wage requirements or permit drivers to negotiate for minimum wages while providing services on our platform. Further, we expect that we will continue to face challenges in penetrating lower-density suburban and rural areas, where our network is smaller and less liquid, the cost of personal vehicle ownership is lower, and personal vehicle ownership is more convenient. If we are not successful in penetrating suburban and rural areas, or if we are unable to operate in certain key metropolitan areas in the future, our ability to serve what we consider to be our total addressable market would be limited, and our business, financial condition, and operating results would suffer. In 2020, we generated 9% of our Mobility Gross Bookings from trips that either started or were completed at an airport. As a result of this concentration, our operating results are susceptible to existing regulations and regulatory changes that impact the ability of drivers using our platform to provide trips to and from airports. In addition, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, travel behavior has changed and airline travel has slowed, reducing the demand for Mobility to and from airports. Sustained declines in air travel due to COVID-19, or other travel-related health concerns, could continue to suppress demand for airport-related Mobility and reduce our Mobility Gross Bookings from airport trips. Certain airports currently regulate ridesharing within airport boundaries, including by mandating that ridesharing service providers obtain airport-specific licenses, and some airports, particularly those outside the United States, have banned ridesharing operations altogether. Despite such bans, some Drivers continue to provide Mobility services, including trips to and from airports, despite lacking the requisite permits. Such actions may result in the imposition of fines or sanctions, including further bans on our ability to operate within airport boundaries, against us or Drivers. Additional bans on our airport operations, or any permitting requirements or instances of non-compliance by Drivers, would significantly disrupt our operations. In addition, if drop-offs or pick-ups of riders become inconvenient because of airport rules or regulations, or more expensive because of airport-imposed fees, the number of Drivers or consumers could decrease, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. While we have entered into agreements with most major U.S. airports as well as certain airports outside the United States to allow the use of our platform within airport boundaries, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to renew such agreements on favorable terms if at all, and we may not be successful in negotiating similar agreements with airports in all jurisdictions. 24 If we fail to offer autonomous vehicle technologies on our platform or fail to offer such technologies on our platform before our competitors, or if such technologies fail to perform as expected, are inferior to those of our competitors, or are perceived as less safe than those of our competitors or non-autonomous vehicles, our financial performance and prospects would be adversely impacted. We have invested, and we may continue to invest, substantial amounts in companies with whom we partner with to offer autonomous vehicle technologies on our platform. In January 2021, we completed the ATG Transactions, which resulted in the merger of our ATG business with Aurora, and included a $400 million investment in the combined company and a commercial agreement pursuant to which we will collaborate with respect to the launch and commercialization of self-driving vehicles on our ridesharing network. We believe that autonomous vehicle technologies may have the ability to meaningfully impact the industries in which we compete and that autonomous vehicles present substantial opportunities. Several companies other than Aurora, including Waymo, Cruise Automation, Tesla, Apple, Zoox (which Amazon has acquired), Aptiv, and Nuro, are developing autonomous vehicle technologies, either alone or through collaborations with car manufacturers, and we expect that they will use such technology to further compete with us in the mobility, delivery, or logistics industries. Waymo has already introduced a commercialized ridehailing fleet of autonomous vehicles, and it is possible that our competitors could introduce autonomous vehicle offerings earlier than we will be able to offer autonomous vehicles on our platform through our commercial agreement with Aurora or other partners. In the event that our competitors bring autonomous vehicles to market before we are able to offer autonomous vehicles on our platform, or their technology is or is perceived to be superior to the technology of parties with which we partner to offer autonomous vehicles on our platform, they may be able to leverage such technology to compete more effectively with us, which would adversely impact our financial performance and our prospects. For example, use of autonomous vehicles could substantially reduce the cost of providing ridesharing, delivery, or logistics services, which could allow competitors to offer such services at a substantially lower price as compared to the price available to consumers on our platform. If a significant number of consumers choose to use our competitors’ offerings over ours, our financial performance and prospects would be adversely impacted. Autonomous vehicle technologies involve significant risks and liabilities. Collisions, including fatal collisions, have happened. Failures of autonomous vehicle technologies that we may offer on our platform or crashes involving autonomous vehicles using the technology of our partners, could generate substantial liability for us, create negative publicity about us, or result in regulatory scrutiny, all of which would have an adverse effect on our reputation, brand, business, prospects, and operating results. Federal and state government regulations specifically designed to govern autonomous vehicle operation, testing and/or manufacture are developing. These regulations could include requirements that delay or limit our ability to offer autonomous vehicles on our platform. If regulations of this nature are implemented, we may not be able to offer autonomous vehicle technologies on our platform in the manner we expect, or at all. Further, if we or parties with which we partner to offer autonomous vehicle technologies are unable to comply with existing or new regulations or laws applicable to autonomous vehicles, we and our partners could become subject to substantial fines or penalties. Our business depends on retaining and attracting high-quality personnel, and continued attrition, future attrition, or unsuccessful succession planning could adversely affect our business. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain high-quality management, operations, engineering, and other personnel who are in high demand, are often subject to competing employment offers, and are attractive recruiting targets for our competitors. Challenges related to our culture and workplace practices and negative publicity we experience have in the past led to significant attrition and made it more difficult to attract high-quality employees. Future challenges related to our culture and workplace practices or additional negative publicity could lead to further attrition and difficulty attracting high-quality employees. Future leadership transitions and management changes may cause uncertainty in, or a disruption to, our business, and may increase the likelihood of senior management or other employee turnover. The loss of qualified executives and employees, or an inability to attract, retain, and motivate high-quality executives and employees required for the planned expansion of our business, may harm our operating results and impair our ability to grow. In addition, we depend on the continued services and performance of our key personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer Dara Khosrowshahi. We have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Khosrowshahi, which is at-will and has no specific duration. Recently hired executives may view our business differently than members of our prior management team and, over time, may make changes to our personnel and their responsibilities as well as our strategic focus, operations, or business plans. We may not be able to properly manage any such shift in focus, and any changes to our business may ultimately prove unsuccessful. In addition, our failure to put in place adequate succession plans for senior and key management roles or the failure of key employees to successfully transition into new roles, for example, as a result of reductions in workforce and organizational changes that we recently implemented, could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. The unexpected or abrupt departure of one or more of our key personnel and the failure to effectively transfer knowledge and effect smooth key personnel transitions has had and may in the future have an adverse effect on our business resulting from the loss of such person’s skills, knowledge of our business, and years of industry experience. If we cannot effectively manage leadership transitions and management changes in the future, our reputation and future business prospects could be adversely affected. 25 To attract and retain key personnel, we use equity incentives, among other measures. These measures may not be sufficient to attract and retain the personnel we require to operate our business effectively. Further, the equity incentives we currently use to attract, retain, and motivate employees may not be as effective as in the past, particularly if the value of the underlying stock does not increase commensurate with expectations or consistent with our historical stock price growth. If we are unable to attract and retain high-quality management and operating personnel, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be adversely affected. The impact of economic conditions, including the resulting effect on discretionary consumer spending, may harm our business and operating results. Our performance is subject to economic conditions and their impact on levels of discretionary consumer spending. Some of the factors that have an impact on discretionary consumer spending include general economic conditions, unemployment, consumer debt, reductions in net worth, residential real estate and mortgage markets, taxation, energy prices, interest rates, consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors. Consumer preferences tend to shift to lower-cost alternatives during recessionary periods and other periods in which disposable income is adversely affected. In such circumstances, consumers may choose to use one of our lower price-point products over a higher Gross Bookings per Trip offering, may choose to forgo our offerings for lower-cost personal vehicle or public transportation alternatives, or may reduce total miles traveled as economic activity decreases. Such a shift in consumer behavior may reduce our network liquidity and may harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. Likewise, small businesses that do not have substantial resources, including many of the merchants in our network, tend to be more adversely affected by poor economic conditions than large businesses. Further, because spending for food purchases from merchants is generally considered discretionary, any decline in consumer spending may have a disproportionate effect on our Delivery offering. If spending at many of the merchants in our network declines, or if a significant number of these merchants go out of business, consumers may be less likely to use our products and offerings, which could harm our business and operating results. Alternatively, if economic conditions improve, it could lead to Drivers obtaining additional or alternative opportunities for work, which could negatively impact the number of Drivers on our platform, and thereby reduce our network liquidity. Increases in fuel, food, labor, energy, and other costs could adversely affect our operating results. Factors such as inflation, increased fuel prices, and increased vehicle purchase, rental, or maintenance costs may increase the costs incurred by Drivers and carriers when providing services on our platform. Similarly, factors such as inflation, increased food costs, increased labor and employee benefit costs, increased rental costs, and increased energy costs may increase merchant operating costs, particularly in certain international markets, such as Egypt. Many of the factors affecting Driver, merchant, and carrier costs are beyond the control of these parties. In many cases, these increased costs may cause Drivers and carriers to spend less time providing services on our platform or to seek alternative sources of income. Likewise, these increased costs may cause merchants to pass costs on to consumers by increasing prices, which would likely cause order volume to decline, may cause merchants to cease operations altogether, or may cause carriers to pass costs on to shippers, which may cause shipments on our platform to decline. A decreased supply of Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, or carriers on our platform would decrease our network liquidity, which could harm our business and operating results. If we experience security or privacy breaches or other unauthorized or improper access to, use of, disclosure of, alteration of or destruction of our proprietary or confidential data, employee data, or platform user data, we may face loss of revenue, harm to our brand, business disruption, and significant liabilities. We collect, use, and process a variety of personal data, such as email addresses, mobile phone numbers, profile photos, location information, drivers’ license numbers and Social Security numbers of Drivers, consumer payment card information, and Driver and merchant bank account information. As such, we are an attractive target of data security attacks by third parties. Any failure to prevent or mitigate security breaches or improper access to, or use, acquisition, disclosure, alteration or destruction of, any such data could result in significant liability and a material loss of revenue resulting from the adverse impact on our reputation and brand, a diminished ability to retain or attract new platform users, and disruption to our business. We rely on third-party service providers to host or otherwise process some of our data and that of platform users, and any failure by such third party to prevent or mitigate security breaches or improper access to, or use, acquisition, disclosure, alteration, or destruction of, such information could have similar adverse consequences for us. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade services, or sabotage systems change frequently and are often unrecognizable until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques and implement adequate preventative measures. Our servers and platform may be vulnerable to computer viruses or physical or electronic break-ins that our security measures may not detect. Individuals able to circumvent our security measures may misappropriate confidential, proprietary, or personal information held by or on behalf of us, disrupt our operations, damage our computers, or otherwise damage our business. In addition, we may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or mitigate the impact of any such breaches, including potential liability that may not be limited to the amounts covered by our insurance. Security breaches could also expose us to liability under various laws and regulations across jurisdictions and increase the risk of litigation and governmental investigation. We have been subject to security and privacy incidents in the past and may be again in the future. For example, in May 2014, we experienced a data security incident in which an outside actor gained access to certain personal information belonging to Drivers through an access key written into code that an employee had unintentionally posted publicly on a 26 code-sharing website used by software developers (the “2014 Breach”). In October and November of 2016, outside actors downloaded the personal data of approximately 57 million Drivers and consumers worldwide (the “2016 Breach”). The accessed data included the names, email addresses, mobile phone numbers, and drivers’ license numbers of approximately 600,000 Drivers, among other information. For further information on this incident, see the risk factors titled “—We currently are subject to a number of inquiries, investigations, and requests for information from the DOJ, the SEC and other U.S. and foreign government agencies, the adverse outcomes of which could harm our business” and “—We face risks related to our collection, use, transfer, disclosure, and other processing of data, which could result in investigations, inquiries, litigation, fines, legislative, and regulatory action, and negative press about our privacy and data protection practices,” below. As we expand our operations, we may also assume liabilities for breaches experienced by the companies we acquire. For example, in April 2018, Careem publicly disclosed and notified relevant regulatory authorities that it had been subject to a data security breach that allowed access to certain personal information of riders and drivers on its platform, as of January 14, 2018. If Careem becomes subject to liability as a result of this or other data security breaches, or if we fail to remediate this or any other data security breach that Careem or we experience, we may face harm to our brand, business disruption, and significant liabilities. If we are unable to successfully introduce new or upgraded products, offerings, or features for Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, and carriers, we may fail to retain and attract such users to our platform and our operating results would be adversely affected. To continue to retain and attract Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, and carriers to our platform, we will need to continue to invest in the development of new products, offerings, and features that add value for Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, and carriers and that differentiate us from our competitors. For example, in 2018, we redesigned our Driver application with features that better anticipate Driver needs, such as improved real-time communication and updates on the availability of riders and consumers and the pricing of fares and deliveries, and we acquired orderTalk to better integrate Delivery with restaurant point-of-sale systems. In addition, in January 2020, we introduced a number of product changes in California intended to, among other things, provide Drivers with more information about rider destinations, trip distance, and expected fares, display prices more clearly, and allow users to select preferred Drivers, all of which are intended to further strengthen the independence of Drivers in California and protect their ability to work flexibly when using the Uber platform. Developing and delivering these new or upgraded products, offerings, and features is costly, and the success of such new products, offerings, and features depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction, and market acceptance of such products, offerings, and features. Moreover, any such new or upgraded products, offerings, or features may not work as intended or may not provide intended value to platform users. For example, some product changes in California have resulted in, and may continue to result in, reduced demand for rides and reduced supply of Drivers on our platform, Driver dissatisfaction, and adverse impacts on the operation of our platform. If we are unable to continue to develop new or upgraded products, offerings, and features, or if platform users do not perceive value in such new or upgraded products, offerings, and features, platform users may choose not to use our platform, which would adversely affect our operating results. We track certain operational metrics and our category position with internal systems and tools, and our equity stakes in minority-owned affiliates with information provided by such minority-owned affiliates, and do not independently verify such metrics. Certain of our operational metrics are subject to inherent challenges in measurement, and real or perceived inaccuracies in such metrics may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. We track certain operational metrics, including key metrics such as MAPCs, Trips, Gross Bookings, and our category position, with internal systems and tools, and our equity stakes in minority-owned affiliates with information provided by such minority-owned affiliates, that are not independently verified by any third party and which may differ from estimates or similar metrics published by third parties due to differences in sources, methodologies, or the assumptions on which we rely. Our internal systems and tools have a number of limitations, and our methodologies for tracking these metrics may change over time, which could result in unexpected changes to our metrics, including the metrics we publicly disclose, or our estimates of our category position. If the internal systems and tools we use to track these metrics undercount or overcount performance or contain algorithmic or other technical errors, the data we report may not be accurate. While these numbers are based on what we believe to be reasonable estimates of our metrics for the applicable period of measurement, there are inherent challenges in measuring how our products are used across large populations globally. For example, we believe that there are consumers who have multiple accounts, even though we prohibit that in our Terms of Service and implement measures to detect and prevent that behavior. In addition, limitations or errors with respect to how we measure data or with respect to the data that we measure may affect our understanding of certain details of our business, which could affect our long-term strategies. If our operating metrics or our estimates of our category position or our equity stakes in our minority-owned affiliates are not accurate representations of our business, or if investors do not perceive our operating metrics or estimates of our category position or equity stakes in our minority-owned affiliates to be accurate, or if we discover material inaccuracies with respect to these figures, our reputation may be significantly harmed, and our operating and financial results could be adversely affected. 27 In certain jurisdictions, we allow consumers to pay for rides and meal or grocery deliveries using cash, which raises numerous regulatory, operational, and safety concerns. If we do not successfully manage those concerns, we could become subject to adverse regulatory actions and suffer reputational harm or other adverse financial and accounting consequences. In certain jurisdictions, including India, Brazil, and Mexico, as well as certain other countries in Latin America, Europe, the Middle East, and Africa, we allow consumers to use cash to pay Drivers the entire fare of rides and cost of meal deliveries (including our service fee from such rides and meal or grocery deliveries). In 2020, cash-paid trips accounted for approximately 9% of our global Gross Bookings. This percentage may increase in the future, particularly in the markets in which Careem operates. The use of cash in connection with our technology raises numerous regulatory, operational, and safety concerns. For example, many jurisdictions have specific regulations regarding the use of cash for ridesharing and certain jurisdictions prohibit the use of cash for ridesharing. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in the imposition of significant fines and penalties and could result in a regulator requiring that we suspend operations in those jurisdictions. In addition to these regulatory concerns, the use of cash with our Mobility products and Delivery offering can increase safety and security risks for Drivers and riders, including potential robbery, assault, violent or fatal attacks, and other criminal acts. In certain jurisdictions such as Brazil, serious safety incidents resulting in robberies and violent, fatal attacks on Drivers while using our platform have been reported. If we are not able to adequately address any of these concerns, we could suffer significant reputational harm, which could adversely impact our business. In addition, establishing the proper infrastructure to ensure that we receive the correct service fee on cash trips is complex, and has in the past meant and may continue to mean that we cannot collect the entire service fee for certain of our cash-based trips. We have created systems for Drivers to collect and deposit the cash received for cash-based trips and deliveries, as well as systems for us to collect, deposit, and properly account for the cash received, some of which are not always effective, convenient, or widely-adopted by Drivers. Creating, maintaining, and improving these systems requires significant effort and resources, and we cannot guarantee these systems will be effective in collecting amounts due to us. Further, operating a business that uses cash raises compliance risks with respect to a variety of rules and regulations, including anti-money laundering laws. If Drivers fail to pay us under the terms of our agreements or if our collection systems fail, we may be adversely affected by both the inability to collect amounts due and the cost of enforcing the terms of our contracts, including litigation. Such collection failure and enforcement costs, along with any costs associated with a failure to comply with applicable rules and regulations, could, in the aggregate, impact our financial performance. Loss or material modification of our credit card acceptance privileges could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. In 2020, 74% of our Gross Bookings were paid by either credit card or debit card. As such, the loss of our credit card acceptance privileges would significantly limit our business model. We are required by our payment processors to comply with payment card network operating rules, including the Payment Card Industry (“PCI”) and Data Security Standard (the “Standard”). The Standard is a comprehensive set of requirements for enhancing payment account data security developed by the PCI Security Standards Council to help facilitate the broad adoption of consistent data security measures. Our failure to comply with the Standard and other network operating rules could result in fines or restrictions on our ability to accept payment cards. Under certain circumstances specified in the payment card network rules, we may be required to submit to periodic audits, self-assessments, or other assessments of our compliance with the Standard. Such activities may reveal that we have failed to comply with the Standard. If an audit, self- assessment, or other test determines that we need to take steps to remediate any deficiencies, such remediation efforts may distract our management team and require us to undertake costly and time consuming remediation efforts. In addition, even if we comply with the Standard, there is no assurance that we will be protected from a security breach. Moreover, the payment card networks could adopt new operating rules or interpret existing rules that we or our processors might find difficult or even impossible to follow, or costly to implement. In addition to violations of network rules, including the Standard, any failure to maintain good relationships with the payment card networks could impact our ability to receive incentives from them, could increase our costs, or could otherwise harm our business. The loss of our credit card acceptance privileges for any one of these reasons, or the significant modification of the terms under which we obtain credit card acceptance privileges, may have an adverse effect on our business, revenue, and operating results. Cyberattacks, computer malware, viruses, spamming, and phishing attacks could harm our reputation, business, and operating results. We rely heavily on information technology systems across our operations. Our information technology systems, including mobile and online platforms and mobile payment systems, administrative functions such as human resources, payroll, accounting, and internal and external communications, and the information technology systems of our third-party business partners and service providers, contain proprietary or confidential information related to business and personal data, including sensitive personal data, entrusted to us by platform users, employees, and job candidates. Cyberattacks, computer malware, viruses, spamming, and phishing attacks have become more prevalent, have occurred on our systems in the past, and may occur on our systems in the future. Cyberthreats are constantly evolving and employing more sophisticated attack techniques. Our detection capabilities may not be sufficient to prevent or detect a sophisticated cyberattacker, such as a nation state using a zero day exploit or unknown malware. Breaches of our facilities, network, or data security could disrupt the security of our systems and platforms, impair our ability to protect data, compromise confidential or technical business information harming our reputation or competitive position, result in theft or misuse of our intellectual property or other assets, require us to allocate more resources to improve technologies, or otherwise adversely affect our reputation, business and operating results. 28 Various other factors may also cause system failures, including power outages, catastrophic events, inadequate or ineffective redundancy, issues with upgrading or creating new systems or platforms, flaws in third-party software or services, errors by our employees or third-party service providers, or breaches in the security of these systems or platforms. For example, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or platform users to disclose information to gain access to our data or the data of platform users. If our incident response, disaster recovery, and business continuity plans do not resolve these issues in an effective manner, they could result in adverse impacts to our business operations and our financial results. Because of our prominence, the number of platform users, and the types and volume of personal data on our systems, we may be a particularly attractive target for such attacks. Although we have developed, and continue to develop, systems and processes that are designed to protect our data and that of platform users, and to prevent data loss, undesirable activities on our platform, and security breaches, we cannot guarantee that such measures will provide absolute security. Our efforts on this front may be unsuccessful as a result of, for example, software bugs or other technical malfunctions; employee, contractor, or vendor error or malfeasance; government surveillance; or other threats that evolve, and we may incur significant costs in protecting against or remediating cyber-attacks. Any actual or perceived failure to maintain the performance, reliability, security, and availability of our products, offerings, and technical infrastructure to the satisfaction of platform users and certain regulators would likely harm our reputation and result in loss of revenue from the adverse impact to our reputation and brand, disruption to our business, and our decreased ability to attract and retain Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, and carriers. Our platform is highly technical, and any undetected errors could adversely affect our business. Our platform is a complex system composed of many interoperating components and incorporates software that is highly complex. Our business is dependent upon our ability to prevent system interruption on our platform. Our software, including open source software that is incorporated into our code, may now or in the future contain undetected errors, bugs, or vulnerabilities. Some errors in our software code may only be discovered after the code has been released. Bugs in our software, third-party software including open source software that is incorporated into our code, misconfigurations of our systems, and unintended interactions between systems could result in our failure to comply with certain federal, state, or foreign reporting obligations, or could cause downtime that would impact the availability of our service to platform users. We have from time to time found defects or errors in our system and may discover additional defects in the future that could result in platform unavailability or system disruption. In addition, we have experienced outages on our platform due to circumstances within our control, such as outages due to software limitations. We rely on co-located data centers for the operation of our platform. If our co-located data centers fail, our platform users may experience down time. If sustained or repeated, any of these outages could reduce the attractiveness of our platform to platform users. For example, as a result of an error with one of our routine maintenance releases in February 2018, we experienced an outage on our platform for 28 minutes, resulting in Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, and carriers being unable to log on to our platform in major cities, including Las Vegas, Atlanta, New York, and Washington D.C. In addition, our release of new software in the past has inadvertently caused, and may in the future cause, interruptions in the availability or functionality of our platform. Any errors, bugs, or vulnerabilities discovered in our code or systems after release could result in an interruption in the availability of our platform or a negative experience for Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, and carriers, and could also result in negative publicity and unfavorable media coverage, damage to our reputation, loss of platform users, loss of revenue or liability for damages, regulatory inquiries, or other proceedings, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial results. In addition, our growing use of artificial intelligence (“AI”) (including machine learning) in our offerings presents additional risks. AI algorithms may be flawed and datasets may be insufficient or contain biased information. Inappropriate or controversial data practices by us or others could impair the acceptance of AI solutions or subject us to lawsuits and regulatory investigations. These deficiencies could undermine the decisions, predictions or analysis AI applications produce, or lead to unintentional bias and discrimination, subjecting us to competitive harm, legal liability, and brand or reputational harm. Dependencies on Third Parties The successful operation of our business depends upon the performance and reliability of Internet, mobile, and other infrastructures that are not under our control. Our business depends on the performance and reliability of Internet, mobile, and other infrastructures that are not under our control. Disruptions in Internet infrastructure or GPS signals or the failure of telecommunications network operators to provide us with the bandwidth we need to provide our products and offerings have interfered, and could continue to interfere with the speed and availability of our platform. If our platform is unavailable when platform users attempt to access it, or if our platform does not load as quickly as platform users expect, platform users may not return to our platform as often in the future, or at all, and may use our competitors’ products or offerings more often. In addition, we have no control over the costs of the services provided by national telecommunications operators. If mobile Internet access fees or other charges to Internet users increase, consumer traffic may decrease, which may in turn cause our revenue to significantly decrease. Our business depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of mobile communications systems. The occurrence of an unanticipated problem, such as a power outage, telecommunications delay or failure, security breach, or computer virus could result in delays or interruptions to our products, offerings, and platform, as well as business interruptions for us and platform users. Furthermore, foreign governments may leverage their ability to shut down directed services, and local governments may shut down our platform at the routing level. Any of these events could damage our reputation, significantly disrupt our operations, and subject us 29 to liability, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. We have invested significant resources to develop new products to mitigate the impact of potential interruptions to mobile communications systems, which can be used by consumers in territories where mobile communications systems are less efficient. However, these products may ultimately be unsuccessful. We rely on third parties maintaining open marketplaces to distribute our platform and to provide the software we use in certain of our products and offerings. If such third parties interfere with the distribution of our products or offerings or with our use of such software, our business would be adversely affected. Our platform relies on third parties maintaining open marketplaces, including the Apple App Store and Google Play, which make applications available for download. We cannot assure you that the marketplaces through which we distribute our platform will maintain their current structures or that such marketplaces will not charge us fees to list our applications for download. For example, Apple Inc. announced that in 2021, it will require that iOS apps obtain users’ permission to track their activities across third-party apps and websites. If iOS users do not grant us such permission, our ability to target those users for advertisements and to measure the effectiveness of such advertisements may be adversely affected, which could decrease the effectiveness of our advertising, and increase our costs to acquire and engage users on our platform. We rely upon certain third parties to provide software for our products and offerings, including Google Maps for the mapping function that is critical to the functionality of our platform. We do not believe that an alternative mapping solution exists that can provide the global functionality that we require to offer our platform in all of the markets in which we operate. We do not control all mapping functions employed by our platform or Drivers using our platform, and it is possible that such mapping functions may not be reliable. If such third parties cease to provide access to the third-party software that we and Drivers use, do not provide access to such software on terms that we believe to be attractive or reasonable, or do not provide us with the most current version of such software, we may be required to seek comparable software from other sources, which may be more expensive or inferior, or may not be available at all, any of which would adversely affect our business. Our business depends upon the interoperability of our platform across devices, operating systems, and third-party applications that we do not control. One of the most important features of our platform is its broad interoperability with a range of devices, operating systems, and third-party applications. Our platform is accessible from the web and from devices running various operating systems such as iOS and Android. We depend on the accessibility of our platform across these third-party operating systems and applications that we do not control. Moreover, third-party services and products are constantly evolving, and we may not be able to modify our platform to assure its compatibility with that of other third parties following development changes. The loss of interoperability, whether due to actions of third parties or otherwise, could adversely affect our business. We rely on third parties for elements of the payment processing infrastructure underlying our platform. If these third-party elements become unavailable or unavailable on favorable terms, our business could be adversely affected. The convenient payment mechanisms provided by our platform are key factors contributing to the development of our business. We rely on third parties for elements of our payment-processing infrastructure to remit payments to Drivers, merchants, and carriers using our platform, and these third parties may refuse to renew our agreements with them on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If these companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us on acceptable terms or at all, our business may be disrupted. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we generally pay interchange fees and other processing and gateway fees, and such fees result in significant costs. In addition, online payment providers are under continued pressure to pay increased fees to banks to process funds, and there is no assurance that such online payment providers will not pass any increased costs on to merchant partners, including us. If these fees increase over time, our operating costs will increase, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, system failures have at times prevented us from making payments to Drivers in accordance with our typical timelines and processes, and have caused substantial Driver dissatisfaction and generated a significant number of Driver complaints. Future failures of the payment processing infrastructure underlying our platform could cause Drivers to lose trust in our payment operations and could cause them to instead use our competitors’ platforms. If the quality or convenience of our payment processing infrastructure declines as a result of these limitations or for any other reason, the attractiveness of our business to Drivers, merchants, and carriers could be adversely affected. If we are forced to migrate to other third-party payment service providers for any reason, the transition would require significant time and management resources, and may not be as effective, efficient, or well-received by platform users. We currently rely on a small number of third-party service providers to host a significant portion of our platform, and any interruptions or delays in services from these third parties could impair the delivery of our products and offerings and harm our business. We use a combination of third-party cloud computing services and co-located data centers in the United States and abroad. We do not control the physical operation of any of the co-located data centers we use or the operations of our third-party service providers. These third-party operations and co-located data centers may experience break-ins, computer viruses, denial-of-service attacks, sabotage, acts of vandalism, and other misconduct. These facilities may also be vulnerable to damage or interruption from power loss, telecommunications failures, fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, and similar events. Our systems do not provide 30 complete redundancy of data storage or processing, and as a result, the occurrence of any such event, a decision by our third-party service providers to close our co-located data centers without adequate notice, or other unanticipated problems may result in our inability to serve data reliably or require us to migrate our data to either a new on-premise data center or cloud computing service. This could be time consuming and costly and may result in the loss of data, any of which could significantly interrupt the provision of our products and offerings and harm our reputation and brand. We may not be able to easily switch to another cloud or data center provider in the event of any disruptions or interference to the services we use, and even if we do, other cloud and data center providers are subject to the same risks. Additionally, our co-located data center facility agreements are of limited durations, and our co-located data center facilities have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to renew our agreements with these facilities on commercially reasonable terms, we may experience delays in the provision of our products and offerings until an agreement with another co-located data center is arranged. Interruptions in the delivery of our products and offerings may reduce our revenue, cause Drivers, merchants, and carriers to stop offering their services through our platform, and reduce use of our platform by consumers and shippers. Our business and operating results may be harmed if current and potential Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, and carriers believe our platform is unreliable. In addition, if we are unable to scale our data storage and computational capacity sufficiently or on commercially reasonable terms, our ability to innovate and introduce new products on our platform may be delayed or compromised, which would have an adverse effect on our growth and business. Our use of third-party open source software could adversely affect our ability to offer our products and offerings and subjects us to possible litigation. We use third-party open source software in connection with the development of our platform. From time to time, companies that use third-party open source software have faced claims challenging the use of such open source software and their compliance with the terms of the applicable open source license. We may be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software, or claiming non-compliance with the applicable open source licensing terms. Some open source licenses require end-users who distribute or make available across a network software and services that include open source software to make available all or part of such software, which in some circumstances could include valuable proprietary code. While we employ practices designed to monitor our compliance with the licenses of third-party open source software and protect our valuable proprietary source code, we have not run a complete open source license review and may inadvertently use third-party open source software in a manner that exposes us to claims of non-compliance with the applicable terms of such license, including claims for infringement of intellectual property rights or for breach of contract. Furthermore, there is an increasing number of open-source software license types, almost none of which have been tested in a court of law, resulting in a dearth of guidance regarding the proper legal interpretation of such licenses. If we were to receive a claim of non-compliance with the terms of any of our open source licenses, we may be required to publicly release certain portions of our proprietary source code or expend substantial time and resources to re-engineer some or all of our software. In addition, the use of third-party open source software typically exposes us to greater risks than the use of third-party commercial software because open-source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the functionality or origin of the software. Use of open source software may also present additional security risks because the public availability of such software may make it easier for hackers and other third parties to determine how to compromise our platform. Additionally, because any software source code that we make available under an open source license or that we contribute to existing open source projects becomes publicly available, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights in such software source code may be limited or lost entirely, and we would be unable to prevent our competitors or others from using such contributed software source code. Any of the foregoing could be harmful to our business, financial condition, or operating results and could help our competitors develop products and offerings that are similar to or better than ours. Financing and Transactional Risks We will require additional capital to support the growth of our business, and this capital might not be available on reasonable terms or at all. To continue to effectively compete, we will require additional funds to support the growth of our business and allow us to invest in new products, offerings, and markets. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders may suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue may have rights, preferences, and privileges superior to those of existing stockholders. Certain of our existing debt instruments contain, and any debt financing we secure in the future could contain, restrictive covenants relating to our ability to incur additional indebtedness and other financial and operational matters that make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital with which to pursue business opportunities. For example, our existing debt instruments contain significant restrictions on our ability to incur additional secured indebtedness. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when required, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges and competition may be significantly limited. 31 We have incurred a significant amount of debt and may in the future incur additional indebtedness. Our payment obligations under such indebtedness may limit the funds available to us, and the terms of our debt agreements may restrict our flexibility in operating our business. As of December 31, 2020, we had total outstanding indebtedness of $8.3 billion aggregate principal amount. In addition, we have agreed to issue up to $423 million of Careem Convertible Notes to Careem stockholders. Subject to the limitations in the terms of our existing and future indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may incur additional debt, secure existing or future debt, or refinance our debt. In particular, we may need to incur additional debt to finance the purchase of autonomous vehicles, and such financing may not be available to us on attractive terms or at all. We may be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to pay interest and principal on our indebtedness. Such payments will reduce the funds available to us for working capital, capital expenditures, and other corporate purposes and limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, expansion plans, and other investments, which may in turn limit our ability to implement our business strategy, heighten our vulnerability to downturns in our business, the industry, or in the general economy, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry, and prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities as they arise. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future financing will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to make required and timely payments on our indebtedness, or to fund our operations. To date, we have used a substantial amount of cash for operating activities, and we cannot assure you when we will begin to generate cash from operating activities in amounts sufficient to cover our debt service obligations. In addition, under certain of our existing debt instruments, we and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to limitations regarding our business and operations, including limitations on incurring additional indebtedness and liens, limitations on certain consolidations, mergers, and sales of assets, and restrictions on the payment of dividends or distributions. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve additional restrictive covenants relating to our capital-raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions or divestitures. Any default under our debt arrangements could require that we repay our loans immediately, and may limit our ability to obtain additional financing, which in turn may have an adverse effect on our cash flows and liquidity. In addition, we are exposed to interest rate risk related to some of our indebtedness, which is discussed in greater detail under the section titled “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk - Interest Rate Risk.” We may have exposure to materially greater than anticipated tax liabilities. The tax laws applicable to our global business activities are subject to uncertainty and can be interpreted differently by different companies. For example, we may become subject to sales tax rates in certain jurisdictions that are significantly greater than the rates we currently pay in those jurisdictions. Like many other multinational corporations, we are subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign jurisdictions and have structured our operations to reduce our effective tax rate. Currently, certain jurisdictions are investigating our compliance with tax rules. If it is determined that we are not compliant with such rules, we could owe additional taxes. Certain jurisdictions, including Australia, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the UK and other countries, require that we pay any assessed taxes prior to being allowed to contest or litigate the applicability of tax assessments in those jurisdictions. These amounts could materially adversely impact our liquidity while those matters are being litigated. This prepayment of contested taxes is referred to as “pay-to-play.” Payment of these amounts is not an admission that we believe we are subject to such taxes; even when such payments are made, we continue to defend our positions vigorously. If we prevail in the proceedings for which a pay-to-play payment was made, the jurisdiction collecting the payment will be required to repay such amounts and also may be required to pay interest. Additionally, the taxing authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate have in the past, and may in the future, examine or challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology, which could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and operating results. Furthermore, our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles. We are subject to regular review and audit by both U.S. federal and state tax authorities, as well as foreign tax authorities, and currently face numerous audits in the United States and abroad. Any adverse outcome of such reviews and audits could have an adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. In addition, the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment by our management, and we have engaged in many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination remains uncertain. The ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. Our tax positions or tax returns are subject to change, and therefore we cannot accurately predict whether we may incur material additional tax liabilities in the future, which could impact our financial position. In addition, in connection with any planned or future acquisitions, we may acquire businesses that have differing licenses and other arrangements that may be challenged by tax authorities for not being at arm’s-length or that are otherwise potentially less tax efficient than our licenses and arrangements. Any subsequent integration or continued operation of such acquired businesses may result in an increased effective tax rate in certain jurisdictions or potential 32 indirect tax costs, which could result in us incurring additional tax liabilities or having to establish a reserve in our consolidated financial statements, and could adversely affect our financial results. Changes in global and U.S. tax legislation may adversely affect our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. We are a U.S.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. U.S. tax legislation enacted in 2017, and modified in 2020, has significantly changed the U.S. federal income taxation of U.S. corporations, including reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate, revising the rules governing net operating losses effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, providing a transition of U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a modified territorial system, imposing a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings as of December 31, 2017, and imposing new limitations on the deductibility of interest. Many of these changes were effective immediately, without any transition periods or grandfathering for existing transactions. The legislation is unclear in many respects and could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, as well as interpretations and implementing regulations by the U.S. Treasury and U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”), any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the legislation. In addition, it is unclear how these U.S. federal income tax changes will affect state and local taxation, which often uses federal taxable income as a starting point for computing state and local tax liabilities. We are unable to predict what global or U.S. tax reforms may be proposed or enacted in the future or what effects such future changes would have on our business. Any such changes in tax legislation, regulations, policies or practices in the jurisdictions in which we operate could increase the estimated tax liability that we have expensed to date and paid or accrued on our balance sheet; affect our financial position, future operating results, cash flows, and effective tax rates where we have operations; reduce post-tax returns to our stockholders; and increase the complexity, burden, and cost of tax compliance. We are subject to potential changes in relevant tax, accounting, and other laws, regulations, and interpretations, including changes to tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals. For example, in March 2018, the European Commission released a proposal for a European Council directive on taxation of specified digital services. The proposal calls for an interim tax on certain revenues from digital activities, as well as a longer-term regime that creates a taxable presence for digital services and imposes tax on digital profits. We do not yet know the impact this proposal, if implemented, would have on our financial results. Additionally, other countries could introduce similar digital services taxes. The governments of countries in which we operate and other governmental bodies could make unprecedented assertions about how taxation is determined in their jurisdictions that are contrary to the way in which we have interpreted and historically applied the rules and regulations described above in our income tax returns filed in such jurisdictions. New laws could significantly increase our tax obligations in the countries in which we do business or require us to change the manner in which we operate our business. As a result of the large and expanding scale of our international business activities, many of these changes to the taxation of our activities could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position, operating results, and cash flows. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. As of December 31, 2020, we had net operating loss carryforwards for U.S. federal income tax purposes and state income tax purposes of $13.6 billion and $11.1 billion, respectively, available to offset future taxable income. If not utilized, the federal net operating loss carryforward amounts generated prior to January 1, 2018 will begin to expire in 2031, and the state net operating loss carryforward amounts will begin to expire in 2021. As of December 31, 2020, we also had foreign net operating loss carryforwards of $6.9 billion that will begin to expire in 2023. Realization of these net operating loss carryforwards depends on our future taxable income, and there is a risk that our existing carryforwards could expire unused and be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), if a corporation undergoes an “ownership change,” generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three-year period, the corporation’s ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes, such as research tax credits, to offset its post-change income may be limited. We may experience ownership changes in the future because of subsequent shifts in our stock ownership. As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes to offset U.S. federal taxable income may be subject to limitations, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability to us. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Because we conduct a significant and growing portion of our business in currencies other than the U.S. dollar but report our consolidated financial results in U.S. dollars, we face exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. As exchange rates vary, revenue, cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, operating expenses, other income and expense, and assets and liabilities, when translated, may also vary materially and thus affect our overall financial results. We have not to date, but may in the future, enter into hedging arrangements to manage foreign currency translation, but such activity may not completely eliminate fluctuations in our operating results due to currency exchange rate changes. Hedging arrangements are inherently risky, and we do not have experience establishing hedging programs, which could expose us to additional risks that could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. 33 If we are unable to successfully identify, acquire and integrate suitable businesses, our operating results and prospects could be harmed, and any businesses we acquire may not perform as expected or be effectively integrated. As part of our business strategy, we have entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, agreements to acquire companies, form joint ventures, divest portions or aspects of our business, sell minority stakes in portions or aspects of our business, and acquire complementary companies or technologies, including divestitures in China, Southeast Asia and India, the divestiture of our ATG business to Aurora and our Uber Elevate business to Joby, our Yandex.Taxi joint venture in Russia/CIS, our agreement to enter into a joint venture with SK Telecom Co., LTD., our acquisition of Careem, our purchase of a controlling interest in Cornershop, and our acquisition of Postmates. Competition within our industry for acquisitions of businesses, technologies, and assets is intense. As such, even if we are able to identify a target for acquisition, we may not be able to complete the acquisition on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to receive approval from the applicable competition authorities, or such target may be acquired by another company, including one of our competitors. Further, negotiations for potential acquisitions or other transactions may result in the diversion of our management’s time and significant out-of-pocket costs. We may expend significant cash or incur substantial debt to finance such acquisitions, and such indebtedness may restrict our business or require the use of available cash to make interest and principal payments. In addition, we may finance or otherwise complete acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, which may result in dilution to our stockholders, or if such convertible debt securities are not converted, significant cash outlays. If we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions successfully or fail to successfully address any of these risks, our business, financial condition, and operating results may be harmed. In addition, any businesses we acquire may not perform as well as we expect. Failure to manage and successfully integrate recently acquired businesses and technologies, including managing internal controls and any privacy or data security risks associated with such acquisitions, may harm our operating results and expansion prospects. For example, Careem has historically shared certain user data with certain government authorities, which conflicts with our global policies regarding data use, sharing, and ownership. We have maintained our data use, sharing, and ownership practices for both our business and Careem’s business, and doing so may cause our relationships with government authorities in certain jurisdictions to suffer, and may result in such government authorities assessing significant fines or penalties against us or shutting down our or Careem’s app on either a temporary or indefinite basis. The process of integrating an acquired company, business, or technology or acquired personnel into our company is subject to various risks and challenges, including: • diverting management time and focus from operating our business to acquisition integration; • disrupting our ongoing business operations; • platform user acceptance of the acquired company’s offerings; • implementing or remediating the controls, procedures, and policies of the acquired company; • integrating the acquired business onto our systems and ensuring the acquired business meets our financial reporting requirements and timelines; • retaining and integrating acquired employees, including aligning incentives between acquired employees and existing employees, as well as managing costs associated with eliminating redundancies or transferring employees on acceptable terms with minimal business disruption; • maintaining important business relationships and contracts of the acquired business; • liability for pre-acquisition activities of the acquired company; • litigation or other claims or liabilities arising in connection with the acquisition or the acquired company; and • impairment charges associated with goodwill, long-lived assets, investments, and other acquired intangible assets. For example, with respect to the integration of Careem, the Careem brand and ridesharing, meal delivery, and payments apps continue to operate in parallel with Uber’s apps. Careem’s Chief Executive Officer will continue to be the Chief Executive Officer of Careem and will report to an Uber-controlled board of directors. Although we will integrate certain general and administrative functions at the Uber parent level, Careem’s engineering, human resources, and operations teams will continue to operate independently and report to Careem’s Chief Executive Officer. This structure may delay the efficiencies that we expect to gain from the acquisition and our brand and reputation could be impacted by any damage or reputational harm to the Careem brand. In addition, our acquisition of Careem has increased our risks under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and other similar laws outside the United States. Our existing and planned safeguards, including training and compliance programs to discourage corrupt practices by such parties, may not prove effective, and such parties may engage in conduct for which we could be held responsible. We may not receive a favorable return on investment for prior or future business combinations, including with respect to ATG, Careem, Postmates or our minority-owned affiliates, and we cannot predict whether these transactions will be accretive to the value of 34 our common stock. It is also possible that acquisitions, combinations, divestitures, joint ventures, or other strategic transactions we announce could be viewed negatively by the press, investors, platform users, or regulators, any or all of which may adversely affect our reputation and our business. Any of these factors may adversely affect our ability to consummate a transaction, our financial condition, and our operating results. Legal and Regulatory Risks Related to Our Business We may continue to be blocked from or limited in providing or operating our products and offerings in certain jurisdictions, and may be required to modify our business model in those jurisdictions as a result. In certain jurisdictions, including expansion markets such as Argentina, Germany, Italy, Japan, South Korea, and Spain, our ridesharing business model has been blocked, capped, or suspended, or we have been required to change our business model, due primarily to laws and significant regulatory restrictions in such jurisdictions. In some cases, we have applied for and obtained licenses or permits to operate and must continue to comply with the license or permit requirements or risk revocation. In addition, we may not be able to maintain or renew any such license or permit. For example, TfL scrutinizes our business in London on an on-going basis and we are subject to license reviews at renewal. In November 2019, TfL declined to issue us a license, finding that we were not “fit and proper,” including with respect to confidence in our change and release management processes. We successfully appealed and in September 2020, Westminster Magistrates Court granted us an 18 month operating license on largely the same conditions as our previous license, finding us a fit and proper person. Two new conditions (which we volunteered) include providing to TfL consolidated monthly reporting in relation to regulatory obligations and maintaining our current processes. Any inability to operate in markets such as London, as well as publicity concerning adverse judicial or licensing decisions, would adversely affect our business, revenue, and operating results. We cannot predict whether future regulatory decisions or legislation in other jurisdictions, may embolden or encourage other authorities to take similar actions even where we are operating according to the terms of an existing license or permit. Additionally, since April 2019, Mexico City’s Secretaría de Movilidad passed several amendments to existing ridesharing regulations implementing certain operational requirements, including a prohibition on the use of cash to pay for ridesharing services and, effective as of November 2019, a comprehensive TNC data sharing requirement and a requirement that Drivers in Mexico City obtain additional licenses and annual vehicle inspections to provide ridesharing services. Except for the vehicle inspection, we have an injunction against such operational requirements which, if implemented without modification, could have a negative impact on our business and our failure to comply with such regulations may result in a potential revocation of our license to operate in Mexico City. Traditional taxicab and car service operators in various jurisdictions continue to lobby legislators and regulators to block our Mobility products or to require us to comply with regulatory, insurance, record-keeping, licensing, and other requirements to which taxicab and car services are subject. For example, in January 2019, we suspended our Mobility products in Barcelona after the regional government enacted regulations mandating minimum wait times before riders could be picked up by ridesharing drivers. In December 2018, New York City’s Taxi and Limousine Commission implemented a per-mile and per-minute minimum trip payment formula, designed to establish a minimum pay standard, for drivers providing for-hire services in New York City, such as those provided by Drivers on our platform. These minimum rates took effect in February 2019. Since implementation, these regulations have had an adverse impact on our financial performance in New York City and may continue to do so in the future. In August 2018, the New York City Council voted to approve various measures to further regulate our business, including driver earning rules, licensing requirements, and a one-year freeze on new for-hire vehicle licenses for ridesharing services like those enabled via our platform, while the city studies whether a permanent freeze would help reduce congestion. In August 2019, New York City’s Taxi and Limousine Commission voted to extend such freeze on for-hire vehicle licenses and also voted to enact a new “cruising cap,” intended to reduce the number of for-hire vehicles operating without passengers on platforms like ours in the central business district of New York City. Although such “cruising cap” was struck down by a New York state judge in December 2019, the freeze on for-hire vehicle licenses remains. Additionally, in November 2019, a ballot measure to impose a surcharge on ridesharing trips in San Francisco was passed by voters in San Francisco and such surcharge took effect on January 1, 2020. Also in January 2020, a new tax went into effect in Chicago that imposes a surcharge of up to $3 per ridesharing trip taken in Chicago. In addition, in October 2020, the Seattle City Council passed a minimum pay standard for drivers providing services on our platform that goes into effect on January 1, 2021, and other jurisdictions have in the past considered or may consider regulations which would implement minimum wage requirements or permit drivers to negotiate for minimum wages while providing services on our platform. Similar legislative or regulatory initiatives are being considered or have been enacted in countries outside the United States. If other jurisdictions impose similar regulations, our business growth could be adversely affected. In certain jurisdictions, we are subject to national, state, local, or municipal laws and regulations that are ambiguous in their application or enforcement or that we believe are invalid or inapplicable. In such jurisdictions, we may be subject to regulatory fines and proceedings and, in certain cases, may be required to cease operations altogether if we continue to operate our business as currently conducted, unless and until such laws and regulations are reformed to clarify that our business operations are fully compliant. For example, in September 2020, the Hong Kong Court of Final Appeal issued a ruling against a group of drivers who used the Uber app, concluding that by driving for hire without a Hire Car Permit, they violated the local Road Traffic Ordinance. We are analyzing that decision and considering further legal challenges and possible policy solutions. However, these developments may adversely affect our ability to offer ridesharing services and negatively impact our financial performance in Hong Kong. Additionally, 35 on January 31, 2020, we ceased offering our Mobility products in Colombia after a Colombian court ruled that we violated local competition laws. In response, we appealed the decision, made certain changes to our Mobility products in Colombia and re-launched Mobility in Colombia in February 2020. In June 2020, the Appeals Court of Bogota revoked its order to block Mobility products in Columbia and we have since made additional changes to our Mobility products in Colombia. Furthermore, in certain of these jurisdictions, we continue to provide our products and offerings while we assess the applicability of these laws and regulations to our products and offerings or while we seek regulatory or policy changes to address concerns with respect to our ability to comply with these laws and regulations. Our decision to continue operating in these instances has come under investigation or has otherwise been subject to scrutiny by government authorities. Our continuation of this practice and other past practices may result in fines or other penalties against us and Drivers imposed by local regulators, potentially increasing the risk that our licenses or permits that are necessary to operate in such jurisdictions will not be renewed. Such fines and penalties have in the past been, and may in the future continue to be, imposed solely on Drivers, which may cause Drivers to stop providing services on our platform. In many instances, we make the business decision as a gesture of goodwill to pay the fines on behalf of Drivers or to pay Drivers’ defense costs, which, in the aggregate, can be in the millions of dollars. Furthermore, such business practices may also result in negative press coverage, which may discourage Drivers and consumers from using our platform and could adversely affect our revenue. In addition, we face regulatory obstacles, including those lobbied for by our competitors or from local governments globally, that have favored and may continue to favor local or incumbent competitors, including obstacles for potential Drivers seeking to obtain required licenses or vehicle certifications. We have incurred, and expect that we will continue to incur, significant costs in defending our right to operate in accordance with our business model in many jurisdictions. To the extent that efforts to block or limit our operations are successful, or we or Drivers are required to comply with regulatory and other requirements applicable to taxicab and car services, our revenue and growth would be adversely affected. Our business is subject to numerous legal and regulatory risks that could have an adverse impact on our business and future prospects. As of December 31, 2020, our platform is available in approximately 10,000 cities across approximately 71 countries. We are subject to differing, and sometimes conflicting, laws and regulations in the various jurisdictions in which we provide our offerings. A large number of proposals are before various national, regional, and local legislative bodies and regulatory entities, both within the United States and in foreign jurisdictions, regarding issues related to our business model. Certain proposals, if adopted, could significantly and materially harm our business, financial condition, and operating results by restricting or limiting how we operate our business, increasing our operating costs, and decreasing our number of platform users. We cannot predict whether or when such proposals may be adopted. Further, existing or new laws and regulations could expose us to substantial liability, including significant expenses necessary to comply with such laws and regulations, and could dampen the growth and usage of our platform. For example, as we expand our offerings in new areas, such as non-emergency medical transportation, we may be subject to additional healthcare-related federal and state laws and regulations. Additionally, because our offerings are frequently first-to-market in the jurisdictions in which we operate, several local jurisdictions have passed, and we expect additional jurisdictions to pass, laws and regulations that limit or block our ability to offer our products to Drivers and consumers in those jurisdictions, thereby impeding overall use of our platform. We are actively challenging some of these laws and regulations and are lobbying other jurisdictions to oppose similar restrictions on our business, especially our ridesharing services. Further, because a substantial portion of our business involves vehicles that run on fossil fuels, laws, regulations, or governmental actions seeking to curb air pollution or emissions may impact our business. For example, in response to London’s efforts to cut emissions and improve air quality in the city (including the institution of a toxicity charge for polluting vehicles in the city center congestion zone and the introduction of an “Ultra Low Emissions Zone” that went into effect in April 2019), we have added a clean-air fee of 15 pence per mile to each trip on our platform in London, and plan to help Drivers on our platform fully transition to electric vehicles by 2025. Additionally, proposed ridesharing regulations in Egypt and other jurisdictions may require us to share certain personal data with government authorities to operate our app, which we may not be willing to provide. Our failure to share such data in accordance with these regulations may result in government authorities assessing significant fines or penalties against us or shutting down our or Careem’s app in Egypt on either a temporary or indefinite basis. Additionally, effective January 1, 2021, the United Kingdom exited from the European Union (“EU”), an event commonly referred to as Brexit. The UK represented approximately 6.4% of our global Mobility Gross Bookings in the fourth quarter of 2020. In addition, we are currently involved in litigation in a number of the jurisdictions in which we operate. We initiated some of these legal challenges to contest the application of certain laws and regulations to our business. Others have been brought by taxicab owners, local regulators, local law enforcement, and platform users, including Drivers and consumers. These include individual, multiple plaintiff, and putative class and class action claims for alleged violation of laws related to, among other things, transportation, competition, advertising, consumer protection, fee calculations, personal injuries, privacy, intellectual property, product liability, discrimination, safety, and employment. For example, in May 2019, a class action was filed against us and certain of our subsidiaries in the Supreme Court of Victoria, Australia on behalf of participants in the taxi, hire-car, limousine, and charter vehicle industry who were licensed to operate in particular regions of Australia during certain periods between April 2014 and August 2017. The class action alleges that we operated unlawfully in such regions during such periods. These legislative and regulatory proceedings, allegations, and lawsuits are expensive and time consuming to defend, and, if resolved adversely to us, could result in financial 36 damages or penalties, including criminal penalties, incarceration, and sanctions for individuals employed by us or parties with whom we contract, which could harm our ability to operate our business as planned in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our business, revenue, and operating results. In addition, while we divested certain assets of our dockless e-bikes and e-scooters business to Lime in May 2020, consumers continue to have access to dockless e-bikes and e-scooters through our app. We expect dockless e-bikes and e-scooters to subject us to additional risks distinct from those relating to our other Mobility, Delivery and Freight offerings. For example, consumers using dockless e-bikes or e-scooters face a more severe level of injury in the event of a collision than that faced while riding in a vehicle, given the less sophisticated, and in some cases absent, passive protection systems on dockless e-bikes and e-scooters. The occurrence of real or perceived quality problems or material defects in current or future dockless e-bikes or e-scooters available via our app could result in negative publicity, market withdrawals, regulatory proceedings, enforcement actions, or lawsuits filed against us, particularly if consumers are injured. Changes in, or failure to comply with, competition laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or operating results. Competition authorities closely scrutinize us under U.S. and foreign antitrust and competition laws. An increasing number of governments are enforcing competition laws and are doing so with increased scrutiny, including governments in large markets such as the EU, the United States, Brazil, and India, particularly surrounding issues of predatory pricing, price-fixing, and abuse of market power. Many of these jurisdictions also allow competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. For example, complaints have been filed in several jurisdictions, including in the United States and India, alleging that our prices are too high (surge pricing) or too low (discounts or predatory pricing), or both. We also continue to defend against litigation filed by a purported assignee of Sidecar, an early competitor in the ridesharing business, that asserts claims under federal law based on allegations that we engaged in anti-competitive conduct. If one jurisdiction imposes or proposes to impose new requirements or restrictions on our business, other jurisdictions may follow. Further, any new requirements or restrictions, or proposed requirements or restrictions, could result in adverse publicity or fines, whether or not valid or subject to appeal. In addition, governmental agencies and regulators may, among other things, prohibit future acquisitions, divestitures, or combinations we plan to make, impose significant fines or penalties, require divestiture of certain of our assets, or impose other restrictions that limit or require us to modify our operations, including limitations on our contractual relationships with platform users or restrictions on our pricing models. Such rulings may alter the way in which we do business and, therefore, may continue to increase our costs or liabilities or reduce demand for our platform, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or operating results. Our business is subject to extensive government regulation and oversight relating to the provision of payment and financial services. Most jurisdictions in which we operate have laws that govern payment and financial services activities. Regulators in certain jurisdictions may determine that certain aspects of our business are subject to these laws and could require us to obtain licenses to continue to operate in such jurisdictions. Our subsidiary in the Netherlands, Uber Payments B.V., is registered and authorized by its competent authority, De Nederlandsche Bank, as an electronic money institution. This authorization permits Uber Payments B.V. to provide payment services (including acquiring and executing payment transactions and money remittances, as referred to in the Revised Payment Services Directive (2015/2366/EU)) and to issue electronic money in the Netherlands. In addition, Uber Payments B.V. has notified De Nederlandsche Bank that it will provide such services on a cross-border passport basis into other countries within the EEA. We continue to critically evaluate our options for seeking additional licenses and approvals in several other jurisdictions to optimize our payment solutions and support the future growth of our business. We could be denied such licenses, have existing licenses revoked, or be required to make significant changes to our business operations before being granted such licenses. For example, it is prohibited for persons to hold, acquire, or increase a “qualifying holding” in an electronic money institution with a corporate seat in the Netherlands, such as Uber Payments B.V., prior to receiving a declaration of no objection (“DNO”) from De Nederlandsche Bank. A “qualifying holding” is a direct or indirect holding of 10% or more of the issued share capital of an electronic money institution, the ability to exercise directly or indirectly 10% or more of the voting rights in an electronic money institution, or the ability to exercise directly or indirectly a similar influence over an electronic money institution. We cannot guarantee that a person intending to hold, acquire, or increase a qualifying holding in us will receive a DNO in the future, and a failure of such person to receive a DNO could expose that person to financial regulatory enforcement action in the Netherlands and could cause our electronic money institution license to be negatively impacted or revoked. If we are denied payment or other financial licenses or such licenses are revoked, we could be forced to cease or limit business operations in certain jurisdictions, including in the EEA, and even if we are able to obtain such licenses, we could be subject to fines or other enforcement action, or stripped of such licenses, if we are found to violate the requirements of such licenses. In some countries, it is not clear whether we are required to be licensed as a payment services provider. Were local regulators to determine that such arrangements require us to be so licensed, such regulators may block payments to Drivers, merchants, shippers or carriers. Such regulatory actions, or the need to obtain regulatory approvals, could impose significant costs and involve substantial delay in payments we make in certain local markets, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or operating results. 37 Starting in December 2020, payments made by platform users with payment accounts in the EEA for services provided through our platform may be subject to Strong Customer Authentication (“SCA”) regulatory requirements. In many cases, SCA will require a platform user to engage in additional steps to authenticate each payment transaction. These additional authentication requirements may make our platform user experience in the EEA substantially less convenient, and such loss of convenience could meaningfully reduce the frequency with which platform users use our platform or could cause some platform users to stop using our platform entirely, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects. Further, once SCA is implemented, many payment transactions on our platform may fail to be authenticated due to platform users not completing all necessary authentication steps. Thus, in some cases, we may not receive payment from consumers in advance of paying Drivers for services received by those users. A substantial increase in the frequency with which we make Driver payments without having received corresponding payments from consumers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects. In addition, laws related to money transmission and online payments are evolving, and changes in such laws could affect our ability to provide payment processing on our platform in the same form and on the same terms as we have historically, or at all. For example, changes to our business in Europe, combined with changes to the EU Payment Services Directive, caused aspects of our payment operations in the EEA to fall within the scope of European payments regulation. As a result, one of our subsidiaries, Uber Payments B.V., is directly subject to financial services regulations (including those relating to anti-money laundering, terrorist financing, and sanctioned or prohibited persons) in the Netherlands and in other countries in the EEA where it conducts business. Effective July 1, 2020, we transitioned all our payment operations to the Uber Payments B.V. regulated entity in the EEA countries in which we are required to do so by the European payments regulations. In addition, as we evolve our business or make changes to our business structure, we may be subject to additional laws or requirements related to money transmission, online payments, and financial regulation. These laws govern, among other things, money transmission, prepaid access instruments, electronic funds transfers, anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing, banking, systemic integrity risk assessments, security of payment processes, and import and export restrictions. Our business operations, including our payments to Drivers and merchants, may not always comply with these financial laws and regulations. Historical or future non-compliance with these laws or regulations could result in significant criminal and civil lawsuits, penalties, forfeiture of significant assets, or other enforcement actions. Costs associated with fines and enforcement actions, as well as reputational harm, changes in compliance requirements, or limits on our ability to expand our product offerings, could harm our business. Further, our payment system is susceptible to illegal and improper uses, including money laundering, terrorist financing, fraudulent sales of goods or services, and payments to sanctioned parties. We have invested and will need to continue to invest substantial resources to comply with applicable anti-money laundering and sanctions laws, and in the EEA to conduct appropriate risk assessments and implement appropriate controls as a regulated financial service provider. Government authorities may seek to bring legal action against us if our payment system is used for improper or illegal purposes or if our enterprise risk management or controls in the EEA are not adequately assessed, updated, or implemented, and any such action could result in financial or reputational harm to our business. We currently are subject to a number of inquiries, investigations, and requests for information from the DOJ, the SEC, state Attorney General (“AG”) offices and other U.S. and foreign government agencies, the adverse outcomes of which could harm our business. We are the subject of DOJ criminal inquiries and investigations, as well as civil enforcement inquiries and investigations by other government agencies, including the SEC and state AG offices in the United States and abroad. Those inquiries and investigations cover a broad range of matters, including our data deletion and document retention policies related to the 2016 Breach, which involved the breach of certain archived consumer data hosted on a cloud-based service that outside actors accessed and downloaded. We have in the past and may in the future, settle claims related to such matters. For example, in September 2018, after investigations and various lawsuits relating to the 2016 Breach, we settled with the Attorneys General of all 50 U.S. states and the District of Columbia through stipulated judgments and payment in an aggregate amount of $148 million related to our failure to report the incident for approximately one year. In April 2018, we entered into a consent decree that lasts through 2038 covering the 2014 Breach and the 2016 Breach with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”), which the FTC Commissioners approved in October 2018. In November and December 2018, U.K., Dutch and French regulators imposed fines totaling approximately $1.6 million related to the 2016 Breach. The 2016 Breach may lead to additional costly and time-consuming regulatory investigations and litigation from other government entities, as well as potentially material fines and penalties imposed by other U.S. and international regulators. We are also subject to inquiries and/or investigations by various government authorities related to, among other matters, our business practices, including, for example, an inquiry by the SEC into our compliance with the registration and disclosure requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). As another example, the California Public Utilities Commission recently issued a proposed $59 million fine against us for not producing certain information, including personal information related to incidents disclosed in our US Safety Report. Investigations and enforcement actions from such entities, as well as continued negative publicity and an erosion of current and prospective platform users’ trust, could severely disrupt our business. We are also subject to inquiries and investigations by government agencies related to certain transactions we have entered into in the United States and other countries. For example, in connection with the Grab transaction, the Competition and Consumer Commission of Singapore concluded that the transaction violated local competition laws and imposed fines and restrictions on both us 38 and Grab, including a requirement that Grab cannot require drivers to drive exclusively on its platform, a prohibition on “excessive price surges,” and protections for driver commission rates. In addition, the Philippine Competition Commission approved the transaction subject to similar restrictions, including a cap on maximum allowable fares and a requirement that Grab cannot require drivers to drive exclusively on its platform, and imposed fines relating to our and Grab’s non-compliance with its interim measures order during the pendency of the commission’s antitrust review. These government inquiries and investigations are time-consuming and require a great deal of financial resources and attention from us and our senior management. If any of these matters are resolved adversely to us, we may be subject to additional fines, penalties, and other sanctions, and could be forced to change our business practices substantially in the relevant jurisdictions. Any such determinations could also result in significant adverse publicity or additional reputational harm, and could result in or complicate other inquiries, investigations, or lawsuits from other regulators in future merger control or conduct investigations. Any of these developments could result in material financial damages, operational restrictions, and harm our business. We face risks related to our collection, use, transfer, disclosure, and other processing of data, which could result in investigations, inquiries, litigation, fines, legislative and regulatory action, and negative press about our privacy and data protection practices. The nature of our business exposes us to claims, including civil lawsuits in the United States such as those related to the 2014 Breach and the 2016 Breach. These and any future privacy or security incidents could result in violation of applicable U.S. and international privacy, data protection, and other laws. Such violations subject us to individual or consumer class action litigation as well as governmental investigations and proceedings by federal, state, and local regulatory entities in the United States and internationally, resulting in exposure to material civil or criminal liability. Our data security and privacy practices have been the subject of inquiries from government agencies and regulators, not all of which are finally resolved. In April 2018, we entered into an FTC consent decree pursuant to which we agreed, among other things, to implement a comprehensive privacy program, undergo biennial third-party audits, and not misrepresent how we protect consumer information through 2038. In October 2018, the FTC approved the final settlement, which exposes us to penalties, for, amongst other activities, future failure to report security incidents. In November and December 2018, U.K., Dutch and French supervisory authorities imposed fines totaling approximately $1.6 million. We have also entered into settlement agreements with numerous state enforcement agencies. In January 2016, we entered into a settlement with the Office of the New York State Attorney General under which we agreed to enhance our data security practices. In September 2018, we entered into stipulated judgments with the state attorneys general of all 50 U.S. states and the District of Columbia relating to the 2016 Breach, which involved payment of $148 million and assurances that we would enhance our data security and privacy practices. Failure to comply with these and other orders could result in substantial fines, enforcement actions, injunctive relief, and other penalties that may be costly or that may impact our business. We may also assume liabilities for breaches experienced by the companies we acquire as we expand our operations. For example, in April 2018, Careem publicly disclosed and notified relevant regulatory authorities that it had been subject to a data security breach that allowed access to certain personal information of riders and drivers on its platform as of January 14, 2018. If Careem becomes subject to liability as a result of this or other data security breaches or if we fail to remediate this or any other data security breach that Careem or we experience, we may face harm to our brand, business disruption, and significant liabilities. Our insurance programs may not cover all potential claims to which we are exposed and may not be adequate to indemnify us for the full extent of our potential liabilities. This risk is enhanced in certain jurisdictions with stringent privacy laws and, as we expand our products, offerings, and operations domestically and internationally, we may become subject to amended or additional laws that impose substantial additional obligations related to data privacy and security. The EU adopted the GDPR in 2016, and it became effective in May 2018. The GDPR applies extraterritorially and imposes stringent requirements for controllers and processors of personal data. Such requirements include higher consent standards to process personal data, robust disclosures regarding the use of personal data, strengthened individual data rights, data breach requirements, limitations on data retention, strengthened requirements for special categories of personal data and pseudonymised (i.e., key-coded) data, and additional obligations for contracting with service providers that may process personal data. The GDPR further provides that EU member states may institute additional laws and regulations impacting the processing of personal data, including (i) special categories of personal data (e.g., racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, and religious or philosophical beliefs) and (ii) profiling of individuals and automated individual decision-making. Such additional laws and regulations could limit our ability to use and share personal or other data, thereby increasing our costs and harming our business and financial condition. Non-compliance with the GDPR (including any non-compliance by any acquired business) is subject to significant penalties, including fines of up to the greater of €20 million or 4% of total worldwide revenue, and injunctions against the processing of personal data. Other jurisdictions outside the EU are similarly introducing or enhancing privacy and data security laws, rules, and regulations, which will increase our compliance costs and the risks associated with non-compliance. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”), which provides new privacy rights for consumers and new operational requirements for businesses, went into effect in January 2020. The CCPA includes a statutory damages framework and private rights of action against businesses that fail to comply with certain CCPA terms or implement reasonable security procedures and practices to prevent data breaches. Brazil provides another example, having passed the General Data Protection Law (Lei Geral de Proteção de Dados Pessoais, or LGPD) in 2018, which is now in effect. These laws may be subject to amendments and regulations that may change over time, or result in additional follow-on laws such as the California Privacy Rights Act (“CPRA”) passed in California in November 2020. Additionally, we are subject to laws, rules, and regulations regarding cross-border transfers of personal data, including laws 39 relating to transfer of personal data outside the EEA. We rely on transfer mechanisms permitted under these laws, including the EU Standard Contract Clauses. Such mechanisms have received heightened regulatory and judicial scrutiny, and a recent decision by the Court of Justice of the European Union casts doubt on the adequacy of all of the formerly-approved mechanisms for transferring personal data from countries in the EEA to certain other countries such as the United States. If we cannot rely on existing mechanisms for transferring personal data from the EEA, the United Kingdom, or other jurisdictions, we may be unable to transfer personal data of Drivers, consumers, or employees in those regions, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, we may be required to disclose personal data pursuant to demands from government agencies, including from state and city regulators as a requirement for obtaining or maintaining a license or otherwise, from law enforcement agencies, and from intelligence agencies. This disclosure may result in a failure or perceived failure by us to comply with privacy and data protection policies, notices, laws, rules, and regulations, could result in proceedings or actions against us in the same or other jurisdictions, and could have an adverse impact on our reputation and brand. In addition, Careem has historically shared certain user data with certain government authorities, which conflicts with our global policies regarding data use, sharing, and ownership. We expect to maintain our data use, sharing, and ownership practices for both our business and Careem’s business, and doing so may cause our relationship with government authorities in certain jurisdictions to suffer, and may result in such government authorities assessing significant fines or penalties against us or shutting down our or Careem’s app on either a temporary or indefinite basis. Further, if any jurisdiction in which we operate changes its laws, rules, or regulations relating to data residency or local computation such that we are unable to comply in a timely manner or at all, we may risk losing our rights to operate in such jurisdictions. This could adversely affect the manner in which we provide our products and offerings and thus materially affect our operations and financial results. Such data protection laws, rules, and regulations are complex and their interpretation is rapidly evolving, making implementation and enforcement, and thus compliance requirements, ambiguous, uncertain, and potentially inconsistent. Compliance with such laws may require changes to our data collection, use, transfer, disclosure, and other processing and certain other related business practices and may thereby increase compliance costs. Additionally, any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with privacy and data protection policies, notices, laws, rules, orders and regulations could result in proceedings or actions against us by individuals, consumer rights groups, governmental entities or agencies, or others. We could incur significant costs investigating and defending such claims and, if found liable, significant damages. Further, these proceedings and any subsequent adverse outcomes may subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity. If any of these events were to occur, our business and financial results could be significantly disrupted and adversely affected. Adverse litigation judgments or settlements resulting from legal proceedings in which we may be involved could expose us to monetary damages or limit our ability to operate our business. We have in the past been, are currently, and may in the future become, involved in private actions, collective actions, investigations, and various other legal proceedings by Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, carriers, employees, commercial partners, competitors or, government agencies, among others. We are subject to litigation relating to various matters including Driver classification, Drivers’ tips and taxes, the Americans with Disabilities Act, antitrust, intellectual property infringement, privacy, unfair competition, workplace culture, safety practices, and employment and human resources practices. The results of any such litigation, investigations, and legal proceedings are inherently unpredictable and expensive. Any claims against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, costly, and harmful to our reputation, and could require significant amounts of management time and corporate resources. If any of these legal proceedings were to be determined adversely to us, or we were to enter into a settlement arrangement, we could be exposed to monetary damages or be forced to change the way in which we operate our business, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, we regularly include arbitration provisions in our terms of service with end-users. These provisions are intended to streamline the litigation process for all parties involved, as arbitration can in some cases be faster and less costly than litigating disputes in state or federal court. However, arbitration may become more costly for us, or the volume of arbitrations may increase and become burdensome. Further, the use of arbitration provisions may subject us to certain risks to our reputation and brand, as these provisions have been the subject of increasing public scrutiny. To minimize these risks, we have in the past and may in the future voluntarily limit our use of arbitration provisions, or we may be required to do so, in any legal or regulatory proceeding, either of which could increase our litigation costs and exposure in respect of such proceedings. For example, effective May 15, 2018, we ended mandatory arbitration of sexual misconduct claims by platform users and employees. Further, with the potential for conflicting rules regarding the scope and enforceability of arbitration on a state-by-state basis, as well as conflicting rules between state and federal law, some or all of our arbitration provisions could be subject to challenge or may need to be revised to exempt certain categories of protection. If our arbitration agreements were found to be unenforceable, in whole or in part, or specific claims were required to be exempted from arbitration, we could experience an increase in our litigation costs and the time involved in resolving such disputes, and we could face increased exposure to potentially costly lawsuits, each of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects. We have operations in countries known to experience high levels of corruption and were previously subject to, and may in the future be subject to, inquiries, investigations, and requests for information with respect to our compliance with a number of anti-corruption laws to which we are subject. 40 We have operations in, and have business relationships with, entities in countries known to experience high levels of corruption. We are subject to the FCPA and other similar laws outside the United States that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments, their officials, and political parties for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. U.S. and non-U.S. regulators alike continue to focus on the enforcement of these laws, and we may be subject to additional compliance requirements to identify criminal activity and payments to sanctioned parties. Our activities in certain countries with high levels of corruption enhance the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers or carriers, employees, consultants, or business partners in violation of various anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA, even though the actions of these parties are often outside our control. Our acquisition of Careem may further enhance this risk because users of Careem’s platform and Careem’s employees, consultants, and business partners may not be familiar with, and may not have been previously subject to, these anti-corruption laws. In addition, our existing and future safeguards, including training and compliance programs to discourage these practices by such parties, may not prove effective, and such parties may engage in conduct for which we could be held responsible. Additional compliance requirements may compel us to revise or expand our compliance program, including the procedures we use to verify the identity of platform users and monitor international and domestic transactions. Drivers may become subject to increased licensing requirements, and we may be required to obtain additional licenses or cap the number of Drivers using our platform. Many Drivers currently are not required to obtain a commercial taxi or livery license in their respective jurisdictions. However, numerous jurisdictions in which we operate have conducted investigations or taken action to enforce existing licensing rules, including markets within Latin America and the Asia-Pacific region, and many others, including countries in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa, have adopted or proposed new laws or regulations that require Drivers to be licensed with local authorities or require us or our subsidiaries to be licensed as a transportation company. Local regulations requiring the licensing of us or Drivers may adversely affect our ability to scale our business and operations. In addition, it is possible that various jurisdictions could impose caps on the number of licensed Drivers or vehicles with whom we may partner or impose limitations on the maximum number of hours a Driver may work, similar to recent regulations that were adopted in Spain and New York City, which have temporarily frozen new vehicle licenses for Drivers using platforms like ours. If we or Drivers become subject to such caps, limitations, or licensing requirements, our business and growth prospects would be adversely impacted. We may be subject to liability for the means we use to attract and onboard Drivers. We operate in an industry in which the competition for Drivers is intense. In this highly competitive environment, the means we use to onboard and attract Drivers may be challenged by competitors, government regulators, or individual plaintiffs. For example, putative class actions have been filed by individual plaintiffs against us for alleged violation of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991, alleging, among other things, that plaintiffs received text messages from us regarding our Driver program without their consent or after indicating to us they no longer wished to receive such text messages. In addition, in early 2017, we settled an investigation by the FTC into statements we made regarding potential Driver earnings and third-party vehicle leasing and financing programs. In connection with this matter, we agreed, among other things, to pay $20 million to the FTC for Driver redress. These lawsuits are expensive and time consuming to defend, and, if resolved adversely to us, could result in material financial damages and penalties, costly adjustments to our business practices, and negative publicity. In addition, we could incur substantial expense and possible loss of revenue if competitors file additional lawsuits or other claims challenging these practices. Our business depends heavily on insurance coverage for Drivers and on other types of insurance for additional risks related to our business. If insurance carriers change the terms of such insurance in a manner not favorable to Drivers or to us, if we are required to purchase additional insurance for other aspects of our business, or if we fail to comply with regulations governing insurance coverage, our business could be harmed. We use a combination of third-party insurance and self-insurance mechanisms, including a wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary. Insurance related to our Mobility products may include third-party automobile, automobile comprehensive and collision, physical damage, and uninsured and underinsured motorist coverage. We require Drivers to carry automobile insurance in most countries, and in many cases we also maintain insurance on behalf of Drivers. We rely on a limited number of ridesharing insurance providers, particularly internationally, and should such providers discontinue or increase the cost of coverage, we cannot guarantee that we would be able to secure replacement coverage on reasonable terms or at all. For example, in 2019, one of our insurance providers announced early termination of coverage and was replaced with other insurance providers. In addition to insurance related to our products, we maintain other automobile insurance coverage for owned vehicles and employee activity, as well as insurance coverage for non-automotive corporate risks including general liability, workers’ compensation, property, cyber liability, and director and officers’ liability. If our insurance carriers change the terms of our policies in a manner unfavorable to us or Drivers, our insurance costs could increase. The cost of insurance that we maintain on behalf of Drivers is higher in the United States and Canada than in other geographies. Further, if the insurance coverage we maintain is not adequate to cover losses that occur, we could be liable for significant additional costs. In addition, we and our captive insurance subsidiary are party to certain reinsurance and indemnification arrangements that transfer a significant portion of the risk from the insurance provider to us or our captive insurance subsidiary, which could require us to pay out material amounts that may be in excess of our insurance reserves, resulting in harm to our financial condition. Our 41 insurance reserves account for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses for risks retained by us through our captive insurance subsidiary and other risk retention mechanisms. Such amounts are based on actuarial estimates, historical claim information, and industry data. While management believes that these reserve amounts are adequate, the ultimate liability could be in excess of our reserves. We may be subject to claims of significant liability based on traffic accidents, injuries, or other incidents that are claimed to have been caused by Drivers who use our platform, even when those Drivers are not actively using our platform or when an individual impersonates a Driver. As we expand to include more offerings on our platform, our insurance needs will likely extend to those additional offerings, including Freight. As a result, our automobile liability and general liability insurance policies and insurance maintained by Drivers may not cover all potential claims related to traffic accidents, injuries, or other incidents that are claimed to have been caused by Drivers who use our platform, and may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that we could face. Even if these claims do not result in liability, we could incur significant costs in investigating and defending against them. If insurers become insolvent, they may not be able to pay otherwise valid claims in a timely manner or at all. If we are subject to claims of liability relating to the acts of Drivers or others using our platform, we may be subject to negative publicity and incur additional expenses, which could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, we are subject to local laws, rules, and regulations relating to insurance coverage which could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others. Legislation has been passed in many U.S. jurisdictions that codifies these insurance requirements with respect to ridesharing. Additional legislation has been proposed in other jurisdictions that seeks to codify or change insurance requirements with respect to ridesharing. Further, service providers and business customers of Freight and Uber for Business may require higher levels of coverage as a condition to entering into certain key contracts with us. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with local laws, rules, and regulations or contractual obligations relating to insurance coverage could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others. These lawsuits, proceedings, or actions may subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity, require us to increase our insurance coverage, require us to amend our insurance policy disclosure, increase our costs, and disrupt our business. We may be subject to pricing regulations, as well as related litigation or regulatory inquiries. Our revenue is dependent on the pricing models we use to calculate consumer fares and Driver earnings. Our pricing models, including dynamic pricing, have been, and will likely continue to be, challenged, banned, limited in emergencies, and capped in certain jurisdictions. For example, we have agreed to not calculate consumer fares in excess of the maximum government-mandated fares in all major Indian cities where legal proceedings have limited the use of surge pricing. Further, in 2018, Honolulu, Hawaii became the first U.S. city to pass legislation to cap surge pricing if increased rates exceed the maximum fare set by the city. Additional regulation of our pricing models could increase our operating costs and adversely affect our business. Furthermore, our pricing model has been the subject of litigation and regulatory inquiries related to, among other things, the calculation of and statements regarding consumer fares and Driver earnings (including rates, fees, surcharges, and tolls), as well as the use of surge pricing during emergencies and natural disasters. As a result, we may be forced to change our pricing models in certain jurisdictions, which could harm our revenue or result in a sub-optimal tax structure. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, or if third parties are successful in claiming that we are misappropriating the intellectual property of others, we may incur significant expense and our business may be adversely affected. Our intellectual property includes the content of our website, mobile applications, registered domain names, software code, firmware, hardware and hardware designs, registered and unregistered trademarks, trademark applications, copyrights, trade secrets, inventions (whether or not patentable), patents, and patent applications. We believe that our intellectual property is essential to our business and affords us a competitive advantage in the markets in which we operate. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, our brand and reputation may be harmed, Drivers, consumers, merchants, shippers, and carriers could devalue our products and offerings, and our ability to compete effectively may be impaired. To protect our intellectual property, we rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent, and trade secret laws, contractual provisions, end-user policies, and disclosure restrictions. Upon discovery of potential infringement of our intellectual property, we assess and when necessary, take action to protect our rights as appropriate. We also enter into confidentiality agreements and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants and seek to control access to, and distribution of, our proprietary information in a commercially prudent manner. The efforts we have taken and may take to protect our intellectual property may not be sufficient or effective. For example, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which we currently or in the future will operate. In addition, it may be possible for other parties to copy or reverse-engineer our products and offerings or obtain and use the content of our website without authorization. Further, we may be unable to prevent competitors or other third parties from acquiring or using domain names or trademarks that are similar to, infringe upon, or diminish the value of our domain names, trademarks, service marks, and other proprietary rights. Moreover, our trade secrets may be compromised by third parties or our employees, which would cause us to lose the competitive advantage derived from the compromised trade secrets. Further, we may be unable to detect infringement of our intellectual property rights, and even if we detect such violations and decide to enforce our intellectual property rights, we may not be successful, and may incur significant expenses, in such efforts. In addition, any such enforcement efforts may be time-consuming and may divert management’s attention. Further, such enforcement efforts may 42 result in a ruling that our intellectual property rights are unenforceable or invalid. Any failure to protect or any loss of our intellectual property may have an adverse effect on our ability to compete and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, or operating results. Companies in the Internet and technology industries, and other patent and trademark holders, including “non-practicing entities,” seeking to profit from royalties in connection with grants of licenses or seeking to obtain injunctions, own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We have and may in the future continue to receive notices that claim we have misappropriated, misused, or infringed upon other parties’ intellectual property rights. Furthermore, from time to time we may introduce or acquire new products, including in areas in which we historically have not operated, which could increase our exposure to patent and other intellectual property claims. In addition, we and companies we acquired or in which we have an interest have been sued, and we may in the future be sued, for allegations of intellectual property infringement or threats of trade secret misappropriation. If a company we acquire or in which we have an interest loses rights to valuable intellectual property in such lawsuits, the value of our investment may materially decline. Any intellectual property claim against us, regardless of merit, could be time consuming and expensive to settle or litigate, could divert our management’s attention and other resources, and could hurt goodwill associated with our brand. These claims may also subject us to significant liability for damages and may result in us having to stop using technology, content, branding, or business methods found to be in violation of another party’s rights. Further, certain adverse outcomes of such proceedings could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively in existing or future businesses. We may be required or may opt to seek a license for the right to use intellectual property held by others, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Even if a license is available, we may be required to pay significant royalties, which may increase our operating expenses. We may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, content, branding, or business methods, which could require significant effort and expense and make us less competitive. If we cannot license or develop alternative technology, content, branding, or business methods for any allegedly infringing aspect of our business, we may be unable to compete effectively or we may be prevented from operating our business in certain jurisdictions. Any of these results could harm our operating results. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles. The accounting for our business is complicated, particularly in the area of revenue recognition, and is subject to change based on the evolution of our business model, interpretations of relevant accounting principles, enforcement of existing or new regulations, and changes in SEC or other agency policies, rules, regulations, and interpretations, of accounting regulations. Changes to our business model and accounting methods could result in changes to our financial statements, including changes in revenue and expenses in any period, or in certain categories of revenue and expenses moving to different periods, may result in materially different financial results, and may require that we change how we process, analyze, and report financial information and our financial reporting controls. If we are deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act, applicable restrictions could have an adverse effect on our business. The Investment Company Act contains substantive legal requirements that regulate the manner in which “investment companies” are permitted to conduct their business activities. We believe that we have conducted our business in a manner that does not result in being characterized as an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act because we are primarily engaged in a non-investment company business. Although a significant portion of our assets constitute investments in non-controlled entities (including in China), referred to elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as minority-owned affiliates, we believe that we are not an investment company as defined by the Investment Company Act. While we intend to conduct our operations such that we will not be deemed an investment company, such a determination would require us to initiate burdensome compliance requirements and comply with restrictions imposed by the Investment Company Act that would limit our activities, including limitations on our capital structure and our ability to transact with affiliates, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition. To avoid such a determination, we may be required to conduct our business in a manner that does not subject us to the requirements of the Investment Company Act, which could have an adverse effect on our business. For example, we may be required to sell certain of our assets and pay significant taxes upon the sale or transfer of such assets. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile or may decline steeply or suddenly regardless of our operating performance, and we may not be able to meet investor or analyst expectations. You may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid and may lose all or part of your investment. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate or decline significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in MAPCs, Trips, Adjusted EBITDA, Gross Bookings, revenue, or other operating and financial results; 43 • announcements by us or estimates by third parties of actual or anticipated changes in the number of Drivers and consumers on our platform; • variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of our management, securities analysts, investors, the financial community; • changes in accounting principles or changes in interpretations of existing principles, which could affect financial results; • actions of securities analysts who initiate or maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by any securities analysts who follow our company, or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant products or features, technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments; • negative media coverage or publicity; • changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular, including our competitors; • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, including as a result of trends in the economy as a whole; • lawsuits threatened, filed, or decided against us; • developments in legislation or regulatory actions, including interim or final rulings by judicial or regulatory bodies (including any competition authorities blocking, delaying, or subjecting our acquisition of Careem to significant limitations or restrictions on our ability to operate in one or more markets, or requiring us to divest our or Careem’s business in one or more markets); • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations, or principles; • any major change in our board of directors or management; • any safety incidents or public reports of safety incidents that occur on our platform or in our industry; • statements, commentary, or opinions by public officials that our product offerings are or may be unlawful, regardless of any interim or final rulings by judicial or regulatory bodies; and • other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism, natural disasters, public health concerns or epidemics, such as the current COVID-19 pandemic, natural disasters, or responses to these events. In addition, price and volume fluctuations in the stock markets have affected and continue to affect many technology companies’ stock prices. Often, their stock prices have fluctuated in ways unrelated or disproportionate to the companies’ operating performance. In the past, stockholders have filed securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. For example, beginning in September 2019, several putative class actions were filed in California state and federal courts against us, our directors, certain of our officers, and the underwriters named in our IPO registration statement alleging violations of securities laws in connection with our IPO. Securities litigation could subject us to substantial costs, divert resources and the attention of management from our business, and seriously harm our business. In addition, the occurrence of any of the factors listed above, among others, may cause our stock price to decline significantly, and there can be no assurance that our stock price would recover. As such, you may not be able to sell your shares at or above the price you paid, and you may lose some or all of your investment. Delaware law and provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest difficult, thereby depressing the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay, or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions include the following: • our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill vacancies created by the expansion of our board of directors or the resignation, death, or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals, which may reduce the number of stockholder proposals available for stockholder consideration; • limitations on stockholder ability to convene special stockholder meetings, which could make it difficult for our stockholders to adopt desired governance changes; • prohibition on cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates; and • our board of directors is able to issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock, which makes 44 it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. Any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws, or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. In addition, under our existing debt instruments, we, and certain of our subsidiaries, are subject to certain limitations on our business and operations, including limitations on certain consolidations, mergers, and sales of assets. For information regarding these and other provisions, see the risk factor titled “-We have incurred a significant amount of debt and may in the future incur additional indebtedness. Our payment obligations under such indebtedness may limit the funds available to us, and the terms of our debt agreements may restrict our flexibility in operating our business.” Sales, directly or indirectly, of shares of our common stock by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. Sales, directly or indirectly, of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the public perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We may issue our shares of common stock or securities convertible into our common stock from time to time in connection with a financing, acquisition, investments or otherwise. For example, on December 1, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Postmates for aggregate consideration of approximately 70 million shares of our common stock and equity awards covering approximately 13 million shares of our common stock. This and any other such issuance, including the issuance of additional shares of our common stock upon exercise of such equity awards, could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. We do not intend to pay cash dividends for the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance the operation and expansion of our business, and we do not expect to declare or pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, certain of our existing debt instruments include restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends. As a result, you may only receive a return on your investment in our common stock if the market price of our common stock increases. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware and, to the extent enforceable, the federal district courts of the United States of America are the exclusive forums for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or employees. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for the following types of actions or proceedings under Delaware statutory or common law: • any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; • any action asserting a breach of fiduciary duty; • any action asserting a claim against us or our directors, officers, or employees arising under the Delaware General Corporation Law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, or our amended and restated bylaws; • any action regarding our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws; • any action as to which the Delaware General Corporation Law confers jurisdiction to the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware; and • any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal-affairs doctrine. This provision would not apply to suits brought to enforce a duty or liability created by the Exchange Act or any other claim for which the U.S. federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the federal district courts of the United States of America will be the exclusive forum for resolving any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act, subject to and contingent upon a final adjudication in the State of Delaware of the enforceability of such exclusive forum provision. Although the Delaware Supreme Court recently held that such exclusive forum provisions are facially valid, courts in other jurisdictions may find such provisions to be unenforceable. These exclusive-forum provisions may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or other employees, which may discourage lawsuits against us and our directors, officers, and other employees. If any other court of competent jurisdiction were to find either exclusive-forum provision in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving the dispute in other jurisdictions, which could seriously harm our business. 45 General Risk Factors The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, result in more litigation, and divert management’s attention from operating our business. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the listing requirements of the NYSE, and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Complying with these rules and regulations has increased our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming, or costly, and increase demand on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly, and current reports with respect to our business and operating results. By disclosing information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in filings required of a public company, our business and financial condition will become more visible, which we believe may result in threatened or actual litigation, including by competitors and other third parties. If those claims are successful, our business could be seriously harmed. Even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, the time and resources needed to resolve them could divert our management’s resources and seriously harm our business. As a result of being a public company, we are obligated to develop and maintain proper and effective internal controls over financial reporting, and any failure to maintain the adequacy of these internal controls may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock. We are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“Section 404”), to furnish an annual report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial annually. We currently are required to disclose changes in internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting on a quarterly basis. The process of compiling the system and processing documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404 is costly and challenging, and we may not be able to complete evaluation, testing, and any required remediation in a timely fashion. As our business continues to grow in size and complexity, we are improving our processes and infrastructure to help ensure we can prepare financial reporting and disclosures within the timeline required for a public company. During the evaluation and testing process of our internal controls, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. We cannot assure you that there will not be material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future, particularly due to high growth offerings (such as with Delivery and Freight), which may cause challenges in consistent performance and timely designing new controls. Any failure to maintain internal control over financial reporting could severely inhibit our ability to accurately report our financial condition or operating results. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm determines we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, the market price of our common stock could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the stock exchange on which our securities are listed, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Failure to remedy any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, or to implement or maintain these and other effective control systems required of public companies, could also restrict our future access to the capital markets.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K . In addition to our historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. You should review the sections titled “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” for a discussion of forward-looking statements and in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors”, for a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Overview We are a technology platform that uses a massive network, leading technology, operational excellence and product expertise to power movement from point A to point B. We develop and operate proprietary technology applications supporting a variety of offerings on our platform. We connect consumers with providers of ride services, merchants and food delivery services as well as public transportation networks. We use this same network, technology, operational excellence and product expertise to connect shippers with carriers in the freight industry. We are also developing technologies that provide new solutions to solve everyday problems. COVID-19 In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (“COVID-19”) a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has rapidly changed market and economic conditions globally, impacting Drivers, Delivery People, Merchants, consumers and business partners, as well as our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Various governmental restrictions, including the declaration of a federal National Emergency, multiple cities’ and states’ declarations of states of emergency, school and business closings, quarantines, “shelter at home” orders, restrictions on travel, limitations on social or public gatherings, and other social distancing measures have had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our business and operations, including, for example, by reducing the global demand for Mobility rides. The significant adverse changes in the economic and market conditions resulting from COVID-19 triggered the recognition of pre-tax impairment charges of $1.7 billion in the first quarter of 2020, principally relating to our investment in Didi. For additional information on impairment charges, refer to Note 3 - Investments and Fair Value Measurement and Note 7 – Goodwill and Intangible Assets in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. COVID-19 Response Initiatives We continue to prioritize the health and safety of our consumers, Drivers and Merchants and the communities we serve. As one of the world’s largest platforms for work, we continue to believe that we will play an important role in the economic recovery of cities around the globe. We are focused on navigating the challenges presented by COVID-19 through preserving our liquidity and managing our cash flow by taking preemptive action to enhance our ability to meet our short-term liquidity needs. The pandemic has reduced the demand for our Mobility offering globally. We have responded to the COVID-19 pandemic by launching new, or expanding existing, services or features on an expedited basis, particularly those related to delivery of food and other goods. To comply with social distancing guidelines of national, state and local governments, we have temporarily suspended UberPOOL, our shared Mobility offering, globally and implemented “leave at door” delivery options for Delivery offerings. Additionally, we have asked that all employees who are able to do so work remotely. In addition, to support those whose earning opportunities have been depressed as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as communities hit hard during this unprecedented period, we announced and implemented several initiatives during the first quarter of 2020, including a financial assistance program, for Drivers who are impacted by the pandemic, as well as personal protective equipment disbursement. While we continue to assess the impact from the COVID-19 outbreak, we are unable to accurately predict the full impact of COVID-19 on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows due to numerous uncertainties, including the severity of the disease, the duration of the outbreak, any future waves or resurgences of the virus, variants of the virus, the timing of widespread adoption of vaccines against the virus, additional actions that may be taken by governmental authorities, the further impact on the business of Drivers, Merchants, consumers, and business partners, and other factors identified in Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Driver Classification Developments The classification of Drivers is currently being challenged in courts, by legislators and by government agencies in the United States and abroad. We are involved in numerous legal proceedings globally, including putative class and collective class action lawsuits, demands for arbitration, charges and claims before administrative agencies, and investigations or audits by labor, social 52 security, and tax authorities that claim that Drivers should be treated as our employees (or as workers or quasi-employees where those statuses exist), rather than as independent contractors. Of particular note are proceedings in California, where on May 5, 2020, the California Attorney General, in conjunction with the city attorneys for San Francisco, Los Angeles and San Diego, filed a complaint in San Francisco Superior Court (the “Court”) against Uber and Lyft, alleging that drivers are misclassified, and sought an injunction and monetary damages related to the alleged competitive advantage caused by the alleged misclassification of drivers. On August 10, 2020, the Court issued a preliminary injunction order prohibiting us from classifying Drivers as independent contractors and from violating various wage and hour laws. Following a stay of the injunction and our unsuccessful appeal of the injunction to a Court of Appeal, we were ordered to comply with the preliminary injunction. In November 2020, California voters approved Proposition 22, a state ballot initiative that provides a framework for drivers that use platforms like ours for independent work. Proposition 22 went into effect in December 2020 and we expect that Drivers will be able to maintain their status as independent contractors under California law and that we and our competitors will be required to comply with the provisions of Proposition 22. Although we do not expect that the California Attorney General’s preliminary injunction will go into effect, litigation asserting that Assembly Bill 5 requires Drivers in California to be classified as employees, including the California Attorney General’s suit, remains pending, and we may face liability relating to periods before the effective date of Proposition 22. To comply with Proposition 22, we have incurred and expect to incur additional expenses, including expenses associated with a guaranteed minimum earnings floor for Drivers, insurance for injury protection and subsidies for health care. We do not expect these changes will have a material impact on our business, results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. Also of note, on October 28, 2015, a claim by 25 Drivers, including Mr. Y. Aslam and Mr. J. Farrar, was brought in the UK Employment Tribunal against us asserting that they should be classified as “workers” (a separate category between independent contractors and employees) in the UK rather than independent contractors. The tribunal ruled on October 28, 2016 that the Drivers were workers whenever our app was switched on and they were ready and able to take trips, based on an assessment of the app in July 2016. The Court of Appeal rejected our appeal in a majority decision on December 19, 2018. We appealed to the Supreme Court and a hearing at the Supreme Court took place in July 2020. On February 19, 2021, the Supreme Court of the UK upheld the tribunal ruling. Damages may include back pay including holiday pay and minimum wage. Additional claimants have also filed and each claimant will be required to bring their own separate action to an employment tribunal to determine whether they met the “worker” classification and if so, how much each claimant will be awarded. In addition, we expect to be subject to related pension contributions, which will require separate engagement with the UK pension regulator, but the ultimate resolution of this matter, including the amount of any exposure is uncertain. If, as a result of legislation or judicial decisions, we are required to classify Drivers as employees, workers or quasi-employees where those statuses exist, we would incur significant additional expenses for compensating Drivers, including expenses associated with the application of wage and hour laws (including minimum wage, overtime, and meal and rest period requirements), employee benefits, social security contributions, taxes (direct and indirect), and potential penalties. Additionally, we may not have adequate Driver supply as Drivers may opt out of our platform given the loss of flexibility under an employment model, and we may not be able to hire a majority of the Drivers currently using our platform. Any of these events could negatively impact our business, result of operations, financial position, and cash flows. For a discussion of risk factors related to how misclassification challenges may impact our business, result of operations, financial position and operating condition and cash flows, see the risk factor titled “-Our business would be adversely affected if Drivers were classified as employees, workers or quasi-employees” included in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors”, and Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, if we are required to classify Drivers as employees, this may impact our current financial statement presentation including revenue, cost of revenue, incentives and promotions as further described in our significant and critical accounting policies in Note 1 - Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and the section titled “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Part II, Item 7, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 53 Financial and Operational Highlights (1) See the section titled “Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for more information and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. (2) See the section titled “Certain Key Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below for more information. (3) MAPCs presented for annual periods are MAPCs for the fourth quarter of the year. The 2018 MAPCs exclude the impact of our 2018 Divested Operations, defined as operations in (i) Southeast Asia prior to the sale of those operations to Grab and (ii) Russia/CIS prior to the formation of our Yandex.Taxi joint venture. (4) Our previously reported revenue in 2018 and 2019 has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the implementation of the new accounting presentation policy. Refer to Note 1 - Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on the change in accounting policy. (5) Net income (loss) attributable to Uber Technologies, Inc. includes stock-based compensation expense of $172 million, $4.6 billion and $827 million during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2019 and 2020, respectively. ** Percentage not meaningful. Highlights for 2020 Overall Gross Bookings declined by $7.1 billion in 2020, down 11%, or 9% on a constant currency basis, compared to 2019. Mobility Gross Bookings declined 44%, on a constant currency basis, year-over-year from 2019, and ended the fourth quarter down 47%, on a constant currency basis, showing continued recovery from the second quarter year-over-year decline of 73% year-over-year, on a constant currency basis. Delivery Gross Bookings grew 110% from 2019, on a constant currency basis, outpacing Delivery Trip growth driven by a 32% increase in basket sizes globally driven by stay-at-home order demand related to COVID-19. Revenue was $11.1 billion, or down 14% year-over-year, reflecting the impact of COVID-19 on our Mobility business, partially offset by overall growth in our Delivery business. Revenue improved every quarter from the second quarter of 2020, with a Take Rate of 19.2% in 2020. Net loss attributable to Uber Technologies, Inc. was $6.8 billion, a 20% improvement year-over-year, reflecting reductions in our fixed cost structure, as well as increased variable cost efficiencies, and included $827 million of stock-based compensation expense. Adjusted EBITDA loss was $2.5 billion, improving $197 million from 2019 with Mobility Adjusted EBITDA profit of $1.2 billion, despite Mobility Gross Bookings decline of 44%, on a constant currency basis. Additionally, Delivery Adjusted EBITDA loss of $873 million, improved $499 million and Delivery Adjusted EBITDA margin as a percentage of Delivery Revenue improved to (22.4)% from (97.9)%, compared to 2019. We ended the year with $6.8 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. 54 2020 Significant Developments Acquisitions Careem On January 2, 2020, we completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Careem Inc. (“Careem”). Dubai-based Careem was founded in 2012, and provides primarily ridesharing and, to a lesser extent, meal delivery, and payments services to millions of users in cities across the Middle East, North Africa, and Pakistan. Cornershop On July 6, 2020, we completed our purchase of a controlling interest in Cornershop Cayman (“Cornershop”) in all jurisdictions where we received regulatory approval or did not require regulatory approval. In January 2021, we obtained regulatory approval in Mexico. Cornershop operates an online grocery delivery platform primarily in Chile and Mexico. Routematch On July 14, 2020, we acquired 100% of the equity of Routematch, a software company offering specialized software and solutions to transit agencies, serving customers in the United States and Australia. The acquisition is expected to accelerate our development in the transit space. Postmates On December 1, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Postmates, Inc. (“Postmates”), an on-demand delivery platform in the United States. The acquisition brings together our global Mobility and Delivery platform with Postmates’ distinctive delivery business in the United States. For additional information on acquisitions, see Note 18 – Business Combinations included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Divestitures Uber Eats India to Zomato On January 21, 2020, we entered into a definitive agreement and completed the divestiture of Uber’s food delivery operations in India (“Uber Eats India”) to Zomato Media Private Limited (“Zomato”) in exchange for (i) compulsorily convertible cumulative preference shares of Zomato representing, when converted, 9.99% of the total voting capital of Zomato and (ii) a non-interest bearing note receivable to be repaid over the course of four years for reimbursement by Zomato of goods and services tax. JUMP and Investment in Lime On May 7, 2020, we entered into a series of transactions and agreements with Neutron Holdings, Inc. dba Lime (“Lime”) including the divestiture of certain assets of our dockless e-bikes and e-scooters business and operations operated as JUMP, which was included in our New Mobility offering. For additional information, see Note 19 - Divestitures included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Note Issuances and Redemption Issuance of 2025 Senior Notes In May 2020, we issued five-year notes with an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion due on May 15, 2025 (the “2025 Senior Notes”) in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). Issuance of 2028 Senior Notes In September 2020, we issued eight-year notes with an aggregate principal amount of $500 million due on January 15, 2028 (the “2028 Senior Notes”) in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act. Redemption of 2023 Senior Notes On October 2020, the net proceeds from the 2028 Senior Notes, along with cash on hand, were used to redeem all of our outstanding 2023 Senior Notes. Issuance of 2025 Convertible Notes In December 2020, we issued $1.15 billion aggregate principal amount of 0% convertible senior notes due in 2025 (the “2025 Convertible Notes”) in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule144A under the Securities Act. 55 For additional information, see Note 8 - Long-Term Debt and Revolving Credit Arrangements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K Greenbriar Equity Group, L.P. Investment in Freight On October 1, 2020, we entered into a preferred stock purchase agreement with affiliates of Greenbriar Equity Group, L.P. (“Greenbriar”). Pursuant to the preferred stock purchase agreement, Greenbriar agreed to invest an aggregate of $500 million in Uber Freight Holding Corporation (“Freight Holding”), the holding company for our Uber Freight business, in exchange for Series A convertible preferred stock of Freight Holding. For additional information, see Note 17 - Non-Controlling Interests included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Recent Developments Pending Joint Venture Agreement with SK Telecom In October 2020, we entered into a joint venture agreement with SK Telecom Co., LTD. (“SK Telecom”). Pursuant to this agreement, we and SK Telecom’s mobility business (“Mobility Company”), which will be spun out of SK Telecom prior to the closing of the joint venture, will form a joint venture (the “JV Business”) in South Korea, focused on the business of e-hailing of passenger transportation (including taxis and limousines). Uber has agreed to invest an aggregate of approximately $100 million in the JV Business. At the date of the close of the transaction, we will own a majority stake in the JV Business. The transaction is subject to regulatory approval and other customary closing conditions, including the approval by SK Telecom’s stockholders of the spin-off of Mobility Company, and is expected to close in the first half of 2021. Sale of ATG Business On December 7, 2020, we announced the sale of Apparate USA LLC (“ATG Business” or “Apparate”), our subsidiary focused on the development and commercialization of autonomous vehicle technologies, to Aurora Innovation, Inc. (“Aurora”). Our ATG Business is included within our ATG and Other Technology Programs segment. For additional information, see Note 9 – Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. On January 19, 2021, we completed the sale of our ATG Business to Aurora. Also on January 19, 2021, we made a $400 million cash investment in Aurora and entered into a collaboration agreement with Aurora pursuant to which the parties will collaborate with respect to the launch and commercialization of self-driving vehicles on our ridesharing network. Pending Acquisition of Drizly On February 2, 2021, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire 100% ownership interest in The Drizly Group, Inc. (“Drizly”), which operates an on-demand alcohol marketplace in North America. The aggregate consideration to be paid by us is estimated to be approximately $1.1 billion, subject to certain adjustments set forth in the definitive agreement payable in a combination of cash and shares of our stock based on a fixed price of approximately $53.16 per share. The transaction is subject to regulatory approval and other customary closing conditions, and is expected to close in the first half of 2021. Equity and Term Loan Investment in Moove On February 12, 2021, we entered into and completed a series of agreements with Garment Investments S.L. dba Moove (“Moove”) including (i) an equity investment in which Uber acquired a 30% minority interest in Moove from its current shareholders for approximately $5 million at closing and up to $185 million contingent on future performance of Moove and certain other conditions through the eighth anniversary of the agreement, (ii) a term loan of up to approximately $230 million to Moove, and (iii) a commercial partnership agreement. Moove is a vehicle fleet operator in Spain. 2016 and 2018 Senior Secured Term Loan Refinancing On February 25, 2021, we entered into a refinancing transaction under which we borrowed $2.6 billion pursuant to an amendment to the 2016 Senior Secured Term Loan agreement, the proceeds of which were used to repay in full all previously outstanding loans under the 2016 Senior Secured Term Loan agreement and the 2018 Senior Secured Term Loan agreement. The $2.6 billion is comprised of (i) a $1.1 billion tranche with a maturity date of February 25, 2027, and (ii) a $1.5 billion tranche with a maturity date of April 4, 2025 (together the “Refinanced 2016 Senior Secured Term Loans”). The interest rate for the Refinanced 2016 Senior Secured Term Loans is LIBOR plus 3.50% per annum, subject to a floor of 0.00%. Components of Results of Operations Change in Accounting Policy During the fourth quarter of 2020, we changed our accounting policy related to the presentation of cumulative payments to Drivers in excess of cumulative revenue from Drivers. Our policy for the presentation of these excess cumulative payments has changed from presenting them within cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, to presenting them as a reduction of revenue in our consolidated statements of operations. As a result, prior period information presented has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the implementation of the new accounting policy. Refer to Note 1 - Description of Business and Summary of Significant 56 Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on change in accounting policy. Revenue We generate substantially all of our revenue from fees paid by Drivers and Merchants for use of our platform. We have concluded that we are an agent in these arrangements as we arrange for other parties to provide the service to the end-user. Under this model, revenue is net of Driver and Merchant earnings and Driver incentives. We act as an agent in these transactions by connecting consumers to Drivers and Merchants to facilitate a Trip, meal or grocery delivery service. During the first quarter of 2020, we began charging end-users a fee for Mobility and Delivery services in certain markets. While our contracts and our previously disclosed accounting policy for Mobility Drivers and restaurants remains unchanged, in these markets we subcontract with Delivery People to provide delivery services to end-users. Revenue from restaurants, Mobility Drivers, and end-users is recognized separately, while costs associated with payments to Delivery People are recorded as cost of revenue. For additional discussion related to our revenue, see the section titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Revenue Recognition,” “Note 1 - Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Revenue Recognition,” and “Note 2 - Revenue” to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Cost of Revenue, Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, primarily consists of certain insurance costs related to our Mobility and Delivery offerings, credit card processing fees, bank fees, data center and networking expenses, mobile device and service costs, costs incurred for certain Delivery transactions where we are primarily responsible for delivery services and pay Delivery People for services provided, costs incurred with carriers for Uber Freight transportation services, amounts related to fare chargebacks and other credit card losses. We expect that cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, will fluctuate on an absolute dollar basis for the foreseeable future in line with Trip volume changes on the platform. As Trips increase or decrease, we expect related changes for insurance costs, credit card processing fees, hosting and co-located data center expenses, maps license fees, and other cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization. Operations and Support Operations and support expenses primarily consist of compensation expenses, including stock-based compensation, for employees that support operations in cities, including the general managers, Driver operations, platform user support representatives and community managers. Also included is the cost of customer support, Driver background checks and the allocation of certain corporate costs. As our business recovers from the impacts of COVID-19 and Trip volume increases, we would expect operations and support expenses to increase on an absolute dollar basis for the foreseeable future, but decrease as a percentage of revenue as we become more efficient in supporting platform users. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of compensation costs, including stock-based compensation to sales and marketing employees, advertising costs, product marketing costs and discounts, loyalty programs, promotions, refunds, and credits provided to end-users who are not customers, and the allocation of certain corporate costs. We expense advertising and other promotional expenditures as incurred. As our business recovers from the impacts of COVID-19, we would anticipate sales and marketing expenses to increase on an absolute dollar basis for the foreseeable future but vary from period to period as a percentage of revenue due to timing of marketing campaigns. Research and Development Research and development expenses primarily consist of compensation costs, including stock-based compensation, for employees in engineering, design and product development. Expenses includes ATG and Other Technology Programs development expenses, as well as expenses associated with ongoing improvements to, and maintenance of, existing products and services, and allocation of certain corporate costs. We expense substantially all research and development expenses as incurred. We expect research and development expenses to increase and vary from period to period as a percentage of revenue as we continue to invest in research and development activities relating to ongoing improvements to and maintenance of our platform offerings and other research and development programs, offset by a decrease in investments in our ATG and Other Technology Programs subsequent to the divestiture of ATG. 57 General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of compensation costs, including stock-based compensation, for executive management and administrative employees, including finance and accounting, human resources, policy and communications, legal, and certain impairment charges, as well as allocation of certain corporate costs, occupancy, and general corporate insurance costs. General and administrative expenses also include certain legal settlements. As our business recovers from the impacts of COVID-19 and Trip volume increases, we expect that general and administrative expenses will increase on an absolute dollar basis for the foreseeable future, but decrease as a percentage of revenue as we find efficiencies in our internal support functions. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses primarily consist of depreciation on buildings, site improvements, computer and network equipment, software, leasehold improvements, leased vehicles, furniture and fixtures, and amortization of intangible assets. Depreciation includes expenses associated with buildings, site improvements, computer and network equipment, leased vehicles, and furniture, fixtures, as well as leasehold improvements. Amortization includes expenses associated with our capitalized internal-use software and acquired intangible assets. As our business recovers from the impacts of COVID-19, we would anticipate depreciation and amortization expenses to increase as we continue to build out our network infrastructure and building locations. Interest Expense Interest expense primarily consists of interest expense associated with our outstanding debt, including accretion of debt discount and debt issuance costs. For additional detail related to our debt obligations, see “Note 8 - Long-Term Debt and Revolving Credit Arrangements” to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net primarily includes the following items: • Interest income, which primarily consists of interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents. • Foreign currency exchange gains (losses), net, which primarily consist of remeasurement of transactions and monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency at the end of the period. • Gain (loss) on business divestitures, net. • Unrealized gain (loss) on debt and equity securities, net, which primarily consists of gains (losses) from fair value adjustments relating to our non-marketable securities. • Change in fair value of embedded derivatives, which primarily consists of gains and losses on embedded derivatives related to our 2021 and 2022 Convertible Notes until their extinguishment in connection with our IPO. • Gain on extinguishment of convertible notes and settlement of derivatives. • Other, net, which primarily consists of changes in the fair value of warrants and income from forfeitures of warrants. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions in which we do business. These foreign jurisdictions have different statutory tax rates than those in the United States. Additionally, certain of our foreign earnings may also be taxable in the United States. Accordingly, our effective tax rate will vary depending on the relative proportion of foreign to domestic income, use of foreign tax credits, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, and liabilities and changes in tax laws. Equity Method Investments Equity method investments primarily includes the results of our share of income or loss from our Yandex.Taxi joint venture. 58 Results of Operations The following table summarizes our consolidated statements of operations for each of the periods presented (in millions): (1) Our revenue and cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization for 2018 and 2019 have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the implementation of our new accounting policy adopted in the fourth quarter of 2020. There was no net impact to loss from operations or net income (loss) attributable to Uber Technologies, Inc. for any periods presented. Refer to Note 1 - Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on the change in accounting policy. 59 The following table sets forth the components of our consolidated statements of operations for each of the periods presented as a percentage of revenue (1) : (1) Totals of percentage of revenues may not foot due to rounding. Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2018, 2019 and 2020 Revenue 2020 Compared to 2019 Revenue decreased $1.9 billion, or 14%, primarily attributable to a decline in Gross Bookings of 11%, or 9% on a constant currency basis. The decrease in Gross Bookings was primarily driven by a decline in Mobility Gross Bookings of 46%, or 44% on a constant currency basis, due to adverse impacts from COVID-19. The decrease was partially offset by Delivery Gross Bookings growth of 109%, or 110% on a constant currency basis, due to an increase in food delivery orders and higher basket sizes as a result of stay-at-home order demand related to COVID-19. Additionally, we had a one-time Driver appreciation award of $299 million recorded in the 2019, that was not incurred in 2020. 2019 Compared to 2018 Revenue increased $2.6 billion, or 25%, primarily attributable to an increase in Gross Bookings of 31%, or 34%, on a constant currency basis. The overall increase in Gross Bookings was driven by a 22% increase in MAPCs primarily due to global expansion of our Delivery product offerings combined with wider market adoption of our Mobility product, and overall growth in our other offerings. Cost of Revenue, Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization 60 2020 Compared to 2019 Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, decreased $907 million, or 15%, mainly due to a $2.0 billion decrease in Mobility driven by COVID-19 related volume declines primarily resulting in lower insurance costs. This decrease was partially offset by a $984 million increase in Delivery primarily related to a $513 million increase in Delivery People payments and incentives in certain markets, combined with a $233 million increase in Freight carrier payments. 2019 Compared to 2018 Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, increased $1.3 billion, or 27%, primarily attributable to a $543 million increase in insurance costs and credit card processing fees largely due to overall growth in Trips in our Mobility and Delivery businesses, as well as a $374 million increase in Freight carrier payments. Operations and Support 2020 Compared to 2019 Operations and support expenses decreased $483 million, or 21%, primarily attributable to a $382 million decrease in stock-based compensation mainly related to RSUs with a performance condition satisfied upon our IPO in 2019, a $175 million decrease in employee headcount costs and a $79 million decrease in external contractor expenses, partially offset by a $172 million increase in restructuring and related charges. 2019 Compared to 2018 Operations and support expenses increased $786 million, or 52%, primarily attributable to a $439 million increase in stock-based compensation mainly related to RSUs with a performance condition satisfied upon our IPO in 2019, a $282 million increase in employee headcount costs. Sales and Marketing 2020 Compared to 2019 Sales and marketing expenses decreased $1.0 billion, or 23%, primarily attributable to a decrease in discounts, loyalty expenses, promotions, credits and refunds of $446 million to $2.0 billion compared to $2.5 billion in 2019, a decrease of $298 million in consumer advertising and other marketing programs, as well as a $194 million decrease in stock-based compensation related to RSUs with a performance condition satisfied upon our IPO in 2019. 2019 Compared to 2018 Sales and marketing expenses increased $1.5 billion, or 47%, primarily attributable to an increase in discounts, loyalty expenses, promotions, credits and refunds of $1.1 billion to $2.5 billion compared to $1.4 billion in 2018, a $233 million increase in stock-based compensation related to RSUs with a performance condition satisfied upon our IPO in 2019 and a $174 million increase in employee headcount costs. Research and Development 61 2020 Compared to 2019 Research and development expenses decreased $2.6 billion, or 54%, primarily attributable to a $2.5 billion decrease in stock-based compensation related to RSUs with a performance condition satisfied upon our IPO in 2019, partially offset by an $85 million increase in restructuring and related charges. 2019 Compared to 2018 Research and development expenses increased by $3.3 billion, or 221%. This increase was primarily due to a $2.9 billion increase in stock-based compensation related to RSUs with a performance condition satisfied upon our IPO in 2019 and a $467 million increase in employee headcount costs. General and Administrative 2020 Compared to 2019 General and administrative expenses decreased $633 million, or 19%, primarily attributable to a $712 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense and a net $388 million decrease in legal, tax, and regulatory reserve changes and settlements, partially offset by $193 million in impairment charges related to our New Mobility reporting unit recorded during the first quarter of 2020 primarily related to COVID-19 impacts on certain markets, an $84 million increase in restructuring and related charges, $102 million attributable to accelerated lease expense in 2020 and $52 million in asset impairments. 2019 Compared to 2018 General and administrative expenses increased $1.2 billion, or 58%, primarily attributable to an $859 million increase in stock-based compensation related to RSUs with a performance condition satisfied upon our IPO in 2019 and a $309 million increase in employee headcount costs. Depreciation and Amortization 2020 Compared to 2019 Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $103 million, or 22%, primarily attributable to additional amortization expenses related to newly acquired intangible assets, primarily held by Careem and Postmates, and an increase in leased server depreciation, partially offset by a decrease in depreciation of data center assets. 2019 Compared to 2018 Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $46 million, or 11%, primarily attributable to data center servers depreciation. Interest Expense 2020 Compared to 2019 Interest expense decreased by $101 million, or 18%, primarily due to the conversion of our 2021 and 2022 Convertible Notes upon our IPO in May 2019 and favorable LIBOR rates on our term loans, partially offset by additional interest expense resulting from the issuance of our $1.0 billion 2025 Senior Notes in May 2020, as well as additional bonds issued during 2020. 62 2019 Compared to 2018 Interest expense decreased by $89 million, or 14%, primarily due to the conversion of all our outstanding Convertible Notes into common stock upon our IPO in May 2019, partially offset by additional interest expense resulting from the issuance of our 2023 Senior Notes and our 2026 Senior Notes in October 2018. Other Income (Expense), Net **    Percentage not meaningful. 2020 Compared to 2019 Interest income decreased by $179 million or 76% primarily due to declining balances and yields in our money market fund investments, bank deposits, and available-for-sale securities. Foreign currency exchange gains (losses), net increased by $88 million due to unrealized impacts on foreign exchange resulting from remeasurement of our foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of an entity. Gain on business divestitures, net increased by $204 million due to a $154 million gain on the sale of our Uber Eats India operations to Zomato during the first quarter of 2020 and a $77 million gain on the sale of our European Freight Business to sennder GmbH (“Sennder”) recognized in the fourth quarter of 2020, partially offset by a $27 million loss on the sale of our JUMP operations to Lime recognized during the second quarter of 2020. Unrealized gain (loss) on debt and equity securities, net decreased by $127 million primarily due to loss from fair value adjustments of our non-marketable securities recorded under the fair value option. Impairment of debt and equity securities primarily relates to a $1.7 billion impairment of our investment in Didi. For additional information, refer to Note 3 - Investments and Fair Value Measurement included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Change in fair value of embedded derivatives decreased by $58 million as a result of settlement of convertible debts in the second quarter of 2019. Gain on extinguishment of convertible notes and settlement of derivatives decreased by $444 million due to the conversion of our 2021 and 2022 Convertible Notes and settlement of the related derivatives in connection with our IPO during the second quarter of 2019. 2019 Compared to 2018 Interest income increased by $130 million or 125% primarily due to interest income earned on higher average cash balances from the proceeds of our IPO and additional investment from our ATG Investors. Foreign currency exchange gains (losses), net decreased by $5 million due to unrealized impacts on foreign exchange resulting from remeasurement of our foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of an entity. Gain on business divestitures, net decreased by $3.2 billion due to the non-recurrence in 2019 of gains on the divestitures of our Southeast Asia and Russia/CIS operations in 2018. 63 Unrealized gain (loss) on debt and equity securities, net decreased by $2.0 billion primarily due to the non-recurrence in 2019 of a gain from a fair value adjustment of our Didi investment in 2018. Change in fair value of embedded derivatives increased by $559 million as a result of their revaluation, primarily due to changes in discount yield and time to liquidity. Gain on extinguishment of convertible notes and settlement of derivatives increased by $444 million due to the conversion of our 2021 and 2022 Convertible Notes and settlement of the related derivatives in connection with our IPO during the second quarter of 2019. Other, net decreased by $201 million primarily due to non-recurrence in 2019 of income from forfeitures of warrants during the year ended December 31, 2018. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes **    Percentage not meaningful. 2020 Compared to 2019 Provision for income taxes decreased by $237 million primarily due to a tax impact from the impairment charge of our investment in Didi. 2019 Compared to 2018 Provision for income taxes decreased by $238 million, primarily driven by the deferred U.S. tax expense related to our investment in Didi and Grab and deferred China tax related to our investment in Didi incurred during the first quarter of 2018. In March 2019, we initiated a series of transactions resulting in changes to our international legal structure, including a redomiciliation of a subsidiary to the Netherlands and a transfer of certain intellectual property rights among our wholly-owned subsidiaries, primarily to align our structure to our evolving operations. The redomiciliation resulted in a step-up in the tax basis of intellectual property rights and a correlated increase in foreign deferred tax assets in an amount of $6.4 billion, net of a reserve for uncertain tax positions of $1.4 billion. Based on available objective evidence, we believed it was not more-likely-than-not that these additional foreign deferred tax assets would be realizable as of December 31, 2019 and, therefore, they were offset by a full valuation allowance to the extent not offset by reserves from uncertain tax positions. Loss from Equity Method Investments **    Percentage not meaningful. 2019 Compared to 2018 Loss from equity method investments decreased by $8 million due to a decrease in our portion of the net loss from our Yandex.Taxi joint venture and amortization expense on intangible assets resulting from the basis difference in this investment. Supplemental Disclosure Related to Restructuring and Related Charges During the second quarter of 2020, we initiated and completed certain restructuring activities in order to reduce our overall cost structure in response to the economic challenges and uncertainty resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on our business. We also exited the JUMP business and incurred costs related to site closures, asset impairments and write-offs. As a result, during the year ended December 31, 2020, we recognized $362 million in total restructuring and related charges in the consolidated statement of operations. Total restructuring and related charges included $248 million of cash settled charges, primarily for severance and other termination benefits. The remaining costs related to these restructuring activities are expected to be immaterial. Restructuring activities during the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2019 were not material. These activities were designed to generate an aggregate cost savings of at least $1.0 billion annually when compared to our original fourth quarter 2020 planned cost structure, with the largest component of savings resulting from reductions in workforce. We do not believe these cost-saving measures will impair our ability to conduct any of our key business functions. There is no guarantee 64 that we will achieve the cost savings that we expect. Refer to Note 20 – Restructuring and Related Charges in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Segment Results of Operations We operate our business as four operating and reportable segments: Mobility, Delivery, Freight, and ATG and Other Technology Programs. For additional information about our segments, see Note 14 - Segment Information and Geographic Information in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Revenue (1) Our previously reported revenue in 2018 and 2019 has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the implementation of the new accounting policy. Refer to Note 1 - Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on the change in accounting policy. (2) Mobility revenue includes revenue recognized as an operating lease as defined under ASC 840 for 2018 and ASC 842 for 2019 and 2020. Total revenue recognized under ASC 840 and ASC 842 for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2019 and 2020 was $151 million, $88 million, and $21 million, respectively. For additional information, see Note 2 - Revenue to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. (3) Consists of $42 million and $100 million, respectively, in collaboration revenue from Toyota recognized for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2020. For additional information, see Note 17 - Non-Controlling Interests to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. **    Percentage not meaningful. Segment Adjusted EBITDA Segment Adjusted EBITDA is defined as revenue less the following expenses: cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, operations and support, sales and marketing, and general and administrative and research and development expenses associated with our segments. Segment adjusted EBITDA also excludes non-cash items, certain transactions that are not indicative of ongoing segment operating performance and / or items that management does not believe are reflective of our ongoing core operations. For additional information, see Note 14 - Segment Information and Geographic Information to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. (1 ) Excluding stock-based compensation expense. (2) Includes costs that are not directly attributable to our reportable segments. Corporate G&A also includes certain shared costs such as finance, accounting, tax, human resources, information technology and legal costs. Platform R&D also includes mapping 65 and payment technologies and support and development of the internal technology infrastructure. Our allocation methodology is periodically evaluated and may change. (3) See the section titled “Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for more information and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. **    Percentage not meaningful. Mobility Segment For the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019, Mobility revenue decreased $4.6 billion, or 43% and Mobility adjusted EBITDA profit decreased $902 million, or 44%. Mobility revenue decreased primarily attributable to a decrease in Mobility Gross Bookings due to adverse impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by rationalization in incentive spend. Mobility Take Rate improved to 22.9% from 21.5% compared to 2019 mainly driven by an overall decrease in incentive spend as well as a one-time Driver appreciation award recorded in the second quarter of 2019. Mobility adjusted EBITDA profit decreased primarily attributable to a decrease in Mobility revenue, partially offset by a $1.4 billion decrease in insurance expense as a result of a decrease in miles driven, a $961 million decrease in consumer promotions, and a $516 million decrease in credit card processing costs. Additionally, Mobility adjusted EBITDA margin as a percentage of Mobility revenue declined to 19.2% from 19.3% compared to 2019. For the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018, Mobility revenue increased $1.4 billion, or 15% and Mobility adjusted EBITDA profit increased $530 million, or 34%. Mobility revenue increased primarily attributable to U.S. pricing changes effective in the second and third quarter of 2019 and deeper penetration into international markets, partially offset by a Driver appreciation award. Mobility Take Rate decreased to 21.5% from 22.4% compared to the same period in 2018 driven by an increase in incentive spend in Latin America. Mobility adjusted EBITDA profit increased primarily attributable to an increase in Mobility revenue partially offset by an increase in consumer promotions and variable costs attributable to the overall growth of the business. Delivery Segment For the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019, Delivery revenue increased 2.5 billion, or 179% and Delivery adjusted EBITDA loss decreased $499 million, or 36%. Delivery revenue increased primarily attributable to an increase in Delivery Gross Bookings of 110%, on a constant currency basis, driven by an increase in food delivery orders and higher basket sizes as a result of stay-at-home demand related to COVID-19. Delivery Take Rate improved to 12.9% from 9.7% compared to the same period in 2019 driven by a decrease in incentive spend combined with an overall improvement in basket sizes. Additionally, the increase in Delivery revenue and Delivery Take Rate resulted from an increase in certain Delivery People payments and incentives that are recorded in cost of revenue, where we are primarily responsible for delivery services and pay Delivery People for services provided. Delivery adjusted EBITDA loss decreased primarily attributable to an increase in Delivery revenue, partially offset by a $965 million increase in cost of revenue as well as a $550 million increase in consumer promotions. For the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018, Delivery revenue increased $629 million, or 81% and Delivery adjusted EBITDA loss increased $771 million, or 128%. Delivery revenue increased primarily attributable to an increase in Delivery Gross Bookings of 87%, on a constant currency basis mainly due to changes to our service fees in U.S. and Canada and continued expansion into international markets. These increases were partially offset by a one-time Driver appreciation award as well as higher Delivery People incentive spend, primarily in our international markets. Delivery adjusted EBITDA loss increased primarily attributable to an increase in consumer promotions, brand marketing, and employee headcount costs. Freight Segment For the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019, Freight revenue increased $280 million, or 38% and Freight adjusted EBITDA loss increased $10 million, or 5%. Freight revenue increased primarily attributable to growth in the number of shippers and carriers on the network combined with an increase in volumes with our top shippers. Freight adjusted EBITDA loss increased attributable to an increase in investment spend in our technology and services as we continue to grow the business. 66 For the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018, Freight revenue increased $375 million, or 105% and Freight adjusted EBITDA loss increased $115 million, or 113%. Freight revenue increased primarily attributable to an increase in load volume over 100% domestically as the business expanded the number of shippers and carriers on the network despite industry-wide conditions that have led to a decline in revenue per load. Freight adjusted EBITDA loss increased attributable to an increase in investment spend in our technology and services as we continue to grow the business. ATG and Other Technology Programs Segment For the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019, ATG and Other Technology Programs revenue increased $58 million, or 138% and ATG and Other Technology Programs adjusted EBITDA loss decreased $124 million, or 25%. ATG and Other Technology Programs revenue increased attributable to collaboration revenue related to our three-year joint collaboration agreement with Toyota and DENSO entered into in July 2019. ATG and Other Technology Programs adjusted EBITDA loss decreased due to an increase in revenue, as noted above, partially offset by an increase in operational expenses. For the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018, ATG and Other Technology Programs revenue increased $42 million, and ATG and Other Technology Programs adjusted EBITDA loss decreased $38 million, or 7%. ATG and Other Technology Programs revenue increased attributable to collaboration revenue related to our three-year joint collaboration agreement with Toyota and DENSO entered into in July 2019. ATG and Other Technology Programs adjusted EBITDA loss decreased due to an increase in revenue, as noted above, partially offset by an increase in operational expenses. All Other For the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019, All Other revenue decreased $84 million, or 71% and All Other adjusted EBITDA loss decreased $165 million, or 66%. All Other revenue and All Other adjusted EBITDA loss decreased primarily due to the JUMP Divestiture in the second quarter of 2020. For the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018, All Other revenue increased $102 million, and All Other adjusted EBITDA loss increased $201 million. All Other revenue increased as we continue to expand the reach of our New Mobility offerings. All Other adjusted EBITDA loss increased attributable to an increase in investment spend in our New Mobility offerings as we continue to launch in new cities. 67 Certain Key Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial Measures Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin as a percentage of revenue, as well as revenue growth rates in constant currency, are non-GAAP financial measures. For more information about how we use these non-GAAP financial measures in our business, the limitations of these measures, and reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, see the section titled “Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures.” Monthly Active Platform Consumers. MAPCs is the number of unique consumers who completed a Mobility or New Mobility ride or received a Delivery meal or grocery order on our platform at least once in a given month, averaged over each month in the quarter. While a unique consumer can use multiple product offerings on our platform in a given month, that unique consumer is counted as only one MAPC. We use MAPCs to assess the adoption of our platform and frequency of transactions, which are key factors in our penetration of the countries in which we operate. Trips. We define Trips as the number of completed consumer Mobility or New Mobility rides and Delivery meal or grocery deliveries in a given period. For example, an UberPOOL ride with three paying consumers represents three unique Trips, whereas an UberX ride with three passengers represents one Trip. We believe that Trips are a useful metric to measure the scale and usage of our platform. 68 Gross Bookings. We define Gross Bookings as the total dollar value, including any applicable taxes, tolls, and fees, of Mobility and New Mobility rides, Delivery meal or grocery deliveries, and amounts paid by Freight shippers, in each case without any adjustment for consumer discounts and refunds, Driver and Merchant earnings, and Driver incentives. Gross Bookings do not include tips earned by Drivers. Gross Bookings are an indication of the scale of our current platform, which ultimately impacts revenue. Take Rate is defined as revenue as a percentage of Gross Bookings. Adjusted EBITDA. See the section titled “Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for our definition and a reconciliation of net income (loss) attributable to Uber Technologies, Inc. to Adjusted EBITDA. 2020 Compared to 2019 Adjusted EBITDA loss decreased $197 million, or 7%, primarily attributable to a $499 million improvement in Delivery Adjusted EBITDA, a $321 million decrease in Corporate G&A and Platform R&D costs as well as the favorable impact of $165 million related to the JUMP Divestiture that occurred in the second quarter of 2020. These impacts were partially offset by a $902 million decrease in Mobility Adjusted EBITDA. Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures We collect and analyze operating and financial data to evaluate the health of our business and assess our performance. In addition to revenue, net income (loss), loss from operations, and other results under GAAP, we use Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin as a percentage of revenue as well as revenue growth rates in constant currency, which are described below, to evaluate our business. We have included these non-GAAP financial measures because they are key measures used by our management to evaluate our operating performance. Accordingly, we believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management team and board of directors. Our calculation of these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from similarly-titled non-GAAP measures, if any, reported by our peer companies. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as substitutes for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss), excluding (i) income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, (ii) net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, net of tax, (iii) provision for (benefit from) income taxes, (iv) income (loss) from equity method investments, (v) interest expense, (vi) other income (expense), net, (vii) depreciation and amortization, (viii) 69 stock-based compensation expense, (ix) certain legal, tax, and regulatory reserve changes and settlements, (x) goodwill and asset impairments/loss on sale of assets, (xi) acquisition and financing related expenses, (xii) restructuring and related charges and (xiii) other items not indicative of our ongoing operating performance, including COVID-19 response initiatives related payments for financial assistance to Drivers personally impacted by COVID-19, the cost of personal protective equipment distributed to Drivers, Driver reimbursement for their cost of purchasing personal protective equipment, the costs related to free rides and food deliveries to healthcare workers, seniors, and others in need as well as charitable donations. We have included Adjusted EBITDA in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because it is a key measure used by our management team to evaluate our operating performance, generate future operating plans, and make strategic decisions, including those relating to operating expenses. Accordingly, we believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management team and board of directors. In addition, it provides a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our business, as it removes the effect of certain non-cash expenses and certain variable charges. To help our board, management and investors assess the impact of COVID-19 pandemic on our results of operations, we are excluding the impacts of COVID-19 response initiatives related payments for financial assistance to Drivers personally impacted by COVID-19, the cost of personal protective equipment distributed to Drivers, Driver reimbursement for their cost of purchasing personal protective equipment, the costs related to free rides and food deliveries to healthcare workers, seniors, and others in need as well as charitable donations from Adjusted EBITDA. Our board and management find the exclusion of the impact of these COVID-19 response initiatives from Adjusted EBITDA to be useful because it allows us and our investors to assess the impact of these response initiatives on our results of operations. COVID-19 Response Initiatives To support those whose earning opportunities have been depressed as a result of COVID-19, as well as communities hit hard by the pandemic, we have announced and implemented several initiatives, including, in particular, payments for financial assistance to Drivers personally impacted by COVID-19, the cost of personal protective equipment distributed to Drivers, Driver reimbursement for their cost of purchasing personal protective equipment, the costs related to free rides and food deliveries to healthcare workers, seniors, and others in need as well as charitable donations. The payments for financial assistance to Drivers personally impacted by COVID-19 and Driver reimbursement for their cost of purchasing personal protective equipment are recorded as a reduction to revenue. The cost of personal protective equipment distributed to Drivers, the costs related to free rides and food deliveries to healthcare workers, seniors, and others in need as well as charitable donations are recorded as an expense in our costs and expenses. Limitations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Adjusted EBITDA Reconciliation Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as a financial measure, should be considered as supplemental in nature, and is not meant as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. These limitations include the following: • Adjusted EBITDA excludes certain recurring, non-cash charges, such as depreciation of property and equipment and amortization of intangible assets, and although these are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect all cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditure requirements; • Adjusted EBITDA excludes certain restructuring and related charges, part of which may be settled in cash; • Adjusted EBITDA excludes stock-based compensation expense, which has been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, a significant recurring expense in our business and an important part of our compensation strategy; • Adjusted EBITDA excludes other items not indicative of our ongoing operating performance, including COVID-19 response initiatives related payments for financial assistance to Drivers personally impacted by COVID-19, the cost of personal protective equipment distributed to Drivers, Driver reimbursement for their cost of purchasing personal protective equipment, the costs related to free rides and food deliveries to healthcare workers, seniors, and others in need as well as charitable donations; • Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect period to period changes in taxes, income tax expense or the cash necessary to pay income taxes; • Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the components of other income (expense), net, which primarily includes: interest income; foreign currency exchange gains (losses), net; gain (loss) on business divestitures, net; and unrealized gain (loss) on debt and equity securities, net;, and impairment of debt and equity securities; and • Adjusted EBITDA excludes certain legal, tax, and regulatory reserve changes and settlements that may reduce cash available to us. 70 The following table presents a reconciliation of net income (loss) attributable to Uber Technologies, Inc., the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to Adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods indicated: The comparability of the results for the periods presented above was impacted by our 2018 Divested Operations. During the year ended December 31, 2018, the 2018 Divested Operations unfavorably impacted net income (loss) attributable to Uber Technologies, Inc. by $127 million. Adjusted EBITDA Margin as a Percentage of Revenue We define Adjusted EBITDA margin as a percentage of revenue as Adjusted EBITDA divided by revenue. Constant Currency We compare the percent change in our current period results from the corresponding prior period using constant currency disclosure. We present constant currency growth rate information to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying revenue performed excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. We calculate constant currency by translating our current period financial results using the corresponding prior period’s monthly exchange rates for our transacted currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Selected Quarterly Financial Data The following tables set forth our unaudited selected quarterly financial data for each of the quarters indicated. This unaudited selected quarterly financial data has been prepared on the same basis as our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In the opinion of management, the financial data set forth in the tables below reflect all normal recurring adjustments necessary for the fair statement of results of operations for these periods. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected in the future and the results of a particular quarter or other interim period are not necessarily indicative of the results for a full year. This financial data should be read in conjunction with the section titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 71 Quarterly Consolidated Statements of Operations (1) During the fourth quarter of 2020, we changed our accounting policy related to the presentation of cumulative payments to Drivers in excess of cumulative revenue from Drivers. Our policy for the presentation of these excess cumulative payments has changed from presenting them within cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, to presenting them as a reduction of revenue in our consolidated statements of operations. Refer to Note 1 - Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies for further information on change in accounting policy. As a result, our revenue and cost of revenue for the first three quarters of 2020 and all quarters of 2019 have been retrospectively adjusted. The effect of the change by quarter is as follows: 72 *As previously reported through September 30, 2020 and as would have been reported under our pre-existing accounting presentation policy in the quarter ended December 31, 2020. (2) The three months ended June 30, 2019 includes $3.6 billion of stock-based compensation expense for awards with a performance-based vesting condition satisfied upon our IPO. For additional information on our IPO, see Note 11 - Stockholders' Equity in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The three months ended June 30, 2020, includes a $111 million reversal, included in and offsetting stock-based compensation expense, related to forfeitures of awards for employees that were part of the second quarter 2020 restructuring. The following table sets forth the stock-based compensation expense for each of the quarters indicated: (3) The three months ended March 31, 2020 includes an impairment charge of $1.7 billion, primarily related to our investment in Didi. For additional information, see Note 3 - Investments and Fair Value Measurement to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 73 Quarterly Consolidated Statements of Operations, as a Percentage of Revenue (1) (1) Totals of percentage of revenues may not foot due to rounding. Liquidity and Capital Resources Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $2.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily consisting of $6.8 billion of net loss, adjusted for certain non-cash items, which primarily included $1.7 billion in impairment of non-marketable equity securities, $827 million of stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization expense of $575 million, $404 million in impairment of goodwill, long-lived assets and other assets, as well as a $393 million decrease in cash consumed by working capital. The decrease in cash consumed by working capital and other operating activities was primarily driven by a decrease in our operating lease right-of-use assets, prepaid expenses and other assets and increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities, partially offset by lower accounts payable and operating lease liabilities. Net cash used in operating activities was $4.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 , primarily consisting of $8.5 billion of net loss, adjusted for certain non-cash items, which primarily included $4.6 billion of stock-based compensation expense, $444 million of gain on extinguishment of convertible notes, $58 million of revaluation gain of our derivative liabilities, depreciation and amortization expense of $472 million, $82 million in accretion of discount on our long-term debt, as well as $1.2 billion withdrawal of collateral from restricted cash from James River and a $699 million decrease in cash consumed by working capital. The decrease in cash consumed by working capital was primarily driven by an increase in our insurance reserve, accrued expenses and other liabilities, partially offset by higher accounts receivable and prepaid expenses. 74 Net cash used in operating activities was $1.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily consisting of $1.0 billion of net income, adjusted for certain non-cash items, which primarily included a $3.2 billion gain on business divestitures related to our 2018 Divested Operations, unrealized gain on investment of $2.0 billion related to our investment in Didi, $501 million of revaluation expense of our derivative liabilities, depreciation and amortization expense of $426 million, $318 million in accretion of discount on our long-term debt, impairment of long-lived assets held for sale of $197 million, and $170 million of stock-based compensation expense, as well as an $890 million decrease in cash consumed by working capital primarily driven by an increase in our insurance reserves and accrued expenses, partially offset by higher accounts receivable and prepaid expenses. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $2.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily consisting of $2.1 billion in purchases of marketable securities, $1.5 billion in acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired and $616 million in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by proceeds from maturities and sales of marketable securities of $1.4 billion. Net cash used in investing activities was $790 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, primarily consisting of $588 million in purchases of property and equipment and $441 million in purchases of marketable securities, partially offset by $293 million in proceeds from business disposal, net of cash divested. Net cash used in investing activities was $695 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily consisting of $412 million contributed to equity method investees and $558 million in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by $369 million of proceeds from sales and disposals of property and equipment. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $1.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily consisting of $2.6 billion of proceeds from issuance of notes, net of issuance costs and $247 million of proceeds from issuance of subsidiary preferred stock units, partially offset by $891 million of principal repayment on Careem Notes and $527 million of principal repayment on term loan and notes. Net cash provided by financing activities was $8.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019, primarily consisting of $8.0 billion of proceeds from issuance of common stock upon our IPO, net of offering costs, $1.2 billion of proceeds from issuance of term loan and senior notes, net of issuance costs, and $500 million of proceeds from issuance of common stock in private placement, partially offset by $1.6 billion taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards to satisfy tax withholding requirements and $138 million of principal payments on capital and finance leases. Net cash provided by financing activities was $4.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily consisting of $3.5 billion from issuance of term loan and senior notes, net of issuance costs, $1.8 billion in proceeds from the issuance of redeemable convertible preferred stock, net of issuance costs, partially offset by $491 million of principal repayment on revolving lines of credit. Other Information As of December 31, 2020, $1.8 billion of our $5.6 billion in cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Cash held outside the United States may be repatriated, subject to certain limitations, and would be available to be used to fund our domestic operations. However, repatriation of funds may result in immaterial tax liabilities. We believe that our existing cash balance in the United States is sufficient to fund our working capital needs in the United States. We are in compliance with our debt and line of credit covenants as of December 31, 2020, including by meeting our reporting obligations. We also believe that our sources of funding and our available line of credit will be sufficient to satisfy our currently anticipated cash requirements including capital expenditures, working capital requirements, potential acquisitions, potential prepayments of contested indirect tax assessments (“pay-to-play”), and other liquidity requirements through at least the next 12 months. We intend to continue to evaluate and may, in certain circumstances, take preemptive action to preserve liquidity during the COVID-19 pandemic. As the circumstances around the COVID-19 pandemic remain uncertain, we continue to actively monitor the pandemic's impact to us worldwide including our financial position, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2020, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in our financial condition, revenue, or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that are material to investors. 75 Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2020: (1) Refer to Note 8 - Long-Term Debt and Revolving Credit Arrangements of Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details regarding our long-term debt obligations. (2) Refer to Note 6 - Leases of Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details regarding our operating and finance leases. (3) Consists primarily of non-cancelable commitments for network, data and cloud services, background checks, and other items in the ordinary course of business with varying expiration terms through 2024. The contractual commitment obligations in the table above are associated with agreements that are enforceable and legally binding. As of December 31, 2020, we had recorded liabilities of $95 million related to uncertain tax positions. Due to uncertainties in the timing of potential tax audits, the timing of the resolution of these positions is uncertain and we are unable to make a reasonable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years particularly beyond 12 months. As a result, this amount is not included in the table above. The table above also excludes approximately $771 million of non-interest bearing unsecured convertible notes related to the acquisition of Careem. For additional discussion on the acquisition of Careem, see Note 18 – Business Combinations to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We believe that the following accounting policies involve a high degree of judgment and complexity and are critical to understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of our operations. An accounting policy is considered to be critical if it requires judgment on a significant accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur periodically, could materially impact the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosures in our audited consolidated financial statements. We have based our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Although we believe that the estimates we use are reasonable, due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making those estimates, actual results reported in future periods could differ from those estimates. We believe that the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant judgments, estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. For additional information, see the disclosure included in Note 1 - Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Revenue Recognition We derive our revenue principally from service fees paid by Drivers and Merchants for the use of our platform in connection with our Mobility products and Delivery offering provided by Drivers and Merchants to end-users. Our sole performance obligation in the transaction is to connect Drivers and Merchants with end-users to facilitate the completion of a successful ridesharing trip or Delivery meal delivery. Because end-users access our platform for free, except in certain markets, and we have no performance obligation to end-users, end-users are not our customers. Further, judgment is required in evaluating the presentation of revenue on a gross versus net basis based on whether we control the service provided to the end-user and are the principal in the transaction (gross), or we arrange for other parties to provide the service to the end-user and are the agent in the transaction (net). We have concluded that we are the agent in most markets as we arrange for Drivers and Merchants to provide the service to the end user in Mobility and Delivery transactions. The assessment of 76 whether we are considered the principal or the agent in a transaction could impact the accounting for certain payments and incentives provided to Drivers and end-users and change the timing and amount of revenue recognized. In certain markets, consumers have the option to pay Drivers cash for trips, and we generally collect our service fee from Drivers for these trips by offsetting against any other amounts due to Drivers, including Driver incentives. Because we have limited means to collect our service fee for cash trips, and because we cannot control whether Drivers will generate future earnings that we can offset to collect our service fee, we have concluded collectability of such amounts is not probable until collected. As such, uncollected service fees for cash trips are not recognized in our consolidated financial statements until collected. Driver Incentives Incentives provided to customers are recorded as a reduction of revenue if we do not receive a distinct service in exchange or cannot reasonably estimate the fair value of the service received. Driver incentives that are not for a distinct service are evaluated as variable consideration, in the most likely amount to be earned by the Drivers at the time or as they are earned by the Drivers, depending on the type of Driver incentive. During the fourth quarter of 2020, we changed our accounting policy related to the presentation of cumulative payments to Drivers in excess of cumulative revenue from Drivers. Our policy for the presentation of these excess cumulative payments has changed from presenting them within cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, to presenting them as a reduction of revenue in our consolidated statements of operations. For additional information, see Note 1 - Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Referral incentives offered by us and earned by Drivers for performing marketing services of referring other Drivers to drive on our platform are recorded as sales and marketing expense, as we receive a distinct service. The amount recorded is the lesser of the amount of the Driver incentive paid or the established fair market value of the distinct service received. Fair market value of the distinct service is estimated using amounts paid to vendors for similar services. End-User Discounts and Promotions We offer discounts and promotions to end-users (that are not customers) to encourage use of our platform. These are offered in various forms and include: • Targeted end-user discounts and promotions : These discounts and promotions are offered to specific end-users in a market to acquire, re-engage, or generally increase end-users’ use of our platform. An example is an offer providing a discount on a limited number of rides or meal deliveries during a limited time period, and are akin to coupons. We record the cost of these discounts and promotions as sales and marketing expense at the time they are redeemed by the end-user. • End-user referrals : These referrals are earned when an existing end-user (the referring end-user) refers a new end-user (the referred end-user) to the platform and the new end-user takes his or her first ride on the platform. These referrals are typically paid in the form of a credit given to the referring end-user when earned. These referrals are offered to attract new end-users to our platform. We record the liability for these referrals and corresponding expense as sales and marketing expense at the time the referral is earned by the referring end-user. • Market-wide promotions : These promotions are pricing actions in the form of discounts that reduce the end-user fare charged by Drivers and Merchants to end-users for all or substantially all Mobility or meal deliveries in a specific market. Accordingly, we record the cost of these promotions as a reduction of revenue at the time the trip is completed. Business Combinations We allocate the fair value of purchase consideration to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Such valuations require management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Significant estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include, but are not limited to, future expected cash flows from acquired driver, fleet, merchant, and end-user contracts, acquired technology, and trade names, based on expected future growth rates and margins, attrition rates, future changes in technology and royalty for similar brand licenses, useful lives, and discount rates. Management's estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from estimates. Allocation of purchase consideration to identifiable assets and liabilities affects our amortization expense, as acquired finite-lived intangible assets are amortized over the useful life, whereas any indefinite lived intangible assets, including goodwill, are not amortized. During the measurement period, which is not to exceed one year from the acquisition date, we may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to earnings. 77 Embedded Derivatives During 2015, we had issued convertible notes that contain embedded features subject to derivative accounting. These embedded features are composed of conversion options that have the economic characteristics of a contingent early redemption feature settled in shares of our stock rather than cash, because the total number of shares of our common stock delivered to settle these embedded features will have a fixed value. These conversion options are bifurcated from the underlying instrument and accounted for and valued separately from the host instrument. Embedded derivatives are recognized as derivative liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. We measure these instruments at their estimated fair value and recognize changes in their estimated fair value in other income (expense), net in our consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive loss during the period of change. We value these embedded derivatives as the difference between the estimated value of these convertible notes with and without the Qualified Initial Public Offering (“QIPO”) conversion option (“QIPO Conversion Option”). The fair value of these convertible notes with and without the QIPO Conversion Option is estimated utilizing a discounted cash flow model to discount the expected payoffs at various potential QIPO dates to the valuation date. The key inputs to the valuation model include the probability of a QIPO occurring at various points in time and the discount yield, which was derived by imputing the fair value as equal to the face value on the issuance date of these convertible notes. The discount rate is updated during each period to reflect the yield of a comparable instrument issued as of the valuation date. Upon closing of the IPO in May 2019, holders of these convertible notes elected to convert all outstanding notes into shares of common stock. For additional information, refer to Note 11 - Stockholders' Equity included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Investments—Non-Marketable Equity and Debt Securities We hold investments in privately held companies in the form of equity securities and debt securities without readily determinable fair values and in which we do not have a controlling interest or significant influence. Investments in equity securities without readily determinable fair values are initially recorded at cost and are subsequently adjusted to fair value for impairments and price changes from observable transactions in the same or a similar security from the same issuer. Investments in material available-for-sale debt securities are recorded initially at fair value and subsequently remeasured to fair value at each reporting date with the changes in fair value recognized in other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax. We may elect the fair value option for financial instruments and account for investments in debt and equity securities at fair value with changes reported in net income (loss) from continuing operations. Privately held equity and debt securities are valued using significant unobservable inputs or data in inactive markets. This valuation requires judgment due to the absence of market prices and inherent lack of liquidity and are classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. In determining the estimated fair value of our investments in privately held companies, we utilize the most recent data available including observed transactions such as equity financing transactions of the investees and sales of the existing shares of the investees’ securities. In addition, the determination of whether an observed transaction is similar to the equity and debt securities held by us requires significant management judgment based on the rights and preferences of the securities. We assess our investment portfolio of privately held equity and debt securities quarterly for impairment. The impairment analysis for investments in equity securities includes a qualitative analysis of factors including the investee’s financial performance, industry and market conditions, and other relevant factors. If an equity investment is considered to be impaired we will establish a new carrying value for the investment and recognize an impairment loss through our consolidated statement of operations. Investments in debt securities are evaluated for impairment quarterly based on whether its fair value has declined below its amortized cost. In circumstances where we intend to sell, or are more likely than not required to sell the security before it recovers its amortized cost basis, the difference between the fair value and amortized cost is recognized as a loss in the consolidated financial statement of operations, with a corresponding write-down of the security’s amortized cost. In circumstances where neither condition exists, we then evaluate whether a decline is due to credit-related factors. The factors considered in determining whether a credit loss exists can include the extent to which fair value is less than the amortized cost basis, changes in the credit quality of the underlying loan obligors, credit ratings actions, as well as other factors. To determine the portion of a decline in fair value that is credit-related, we compare the present value of the expected cash flows of the security discounted at the security’s effective interest rate to the amortized cost basis of the security. A credit-related impairment is limited to the difference between fair value and amortized cost, and recognized as an allowance for credit loss on the consolidated balance sheet with a corresponding adjustment to net income (loss). Any remaining decline in fair value that is non-credit related is recognized in other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax. Improvements in expected cash flows due to improvements in credit are recognized through reversal of the credit loss and corresponding reduction in the allowance for credit loss. Equity Method Investments We account for investments in the common stock or in-substance common stock of entities in which we have the ability to exercise significant influence, but do not own a controlling financial interest, using the equity method. Investments accounted for under the equity method are initially recorded at cost. Subsequently, we recognize through our consolidated statement of operations, and as an adjustment to the investment balance, our proportionate share of the entities’ net income or loss and reflect the amortization 78 of basis differences. In accounting for these investments, we record our share of the entities’ net income or loss one quarter in arrears. Equity method investments for which the fair value option is elected are measured at fair value on a recurring basis with changes in fair value reflected in earnings. We review our equity method investments for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the investment may not be fully recoverable. Qualitative and quantitative factors considered as indicators of a potential impairment include financial results and operating trends of the investees, implied values in transactions of the investee’s securities, severity and length of decline in value, and our intention for holding the investment, among other factors. If an impairment is determined to be other-than-temporary, the fair value of the impaired investment would have to be determined and an impairment charge recorded for the difference between the fair value and the carrying value of the investment. The fair value determination, particularly for investments in privately held companies, requires significant judgment to determine appropriate estimates and assumptions. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could affect the calculation of the fair value of the investments and the determination of the impairment charges. Loss Contingencies We are involved in legal proceedings, claims, and regulatory, non-income tax, or government inquiries and investigations that arise in the ordinary course of business. Certain of these matters include claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts of damages. We record a liability when we believe that it is both probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be reasonably estimated, we disclose the possible loss in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. We review the developments in our contingencies that could affect the amount of the provisions that have been previously recorded, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed. We make adjustments to our provisions and changes to our disclosures accordingly to reflect the impact of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel, and updated information. Significant judgment is required to determine both the probability and the estimated amount of loss. These estimates have been based on our assessment of the facts and circumstances at each balance sheet date and are subject to change based on new information and future events. The outcomes of litigation and other disputes are inherently uncertain. Therefore, if one or more of these matters were resolved against us for amounts in excess of management’s expectations, our results of operations and financial condition, including in a particular reporting period in which any such outcome becomes probable and estimable, could be materially adversely affected. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method. The establishment of deferred tax assets from intra-entity transfers of intangible assets requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions to determine the fair value of such intangible assets. Significant estimates in valuing intangible assets may include, but are not necessarily limited to, internal revenue and expense forecasts, the estimated life of the intangible assets, comparable transaction values, and / or discount rates. The discount rates used to discount expected future cash flows to present value are derived from a weighted-average cost of capital analysis and are adjusted to reflect the inherent risks related to the cash flow. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made are reasonable and appropriate, they are based, in part, on historical experience, internal and external comparable data and are inherently uncertain. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that could affect either the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. We account for uncertainty in tax positions by recognizing a tax benefit from uncertain tax positions when it is more-likely-than-not that the position will be sustained upon examination. Evaluating our uncertain tax positions, determining our provision for income taxes, and evaluating the ongoing impact of the Tax Act, are inherently uncertain and require making judgments, assumptions, and estimates. While we believe we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes and the effective tax rate in the period in which such determination is made. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves as well as the related net interest and penalties. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities which may assert assessments against us. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations and assessments to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Insurance Reserves We use a combination of third-party insurance and self-insurance mechanisms, including a wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary, to provide for the potential liabilities for certain risks, including auto liability, uninsured and underinsured motorist, auto physical damage, general liability, and workers’ compensation. The insurance reserves is an estimate of our potential liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, which represents the estimate of the ultimate unpaid obligation for risks retained by us and includes an amount for case reserves related to reported claims and an amount for losses incurred but not reported as of the 79 balance sheet date. The estimate of the ultimate unpaid obligation utilizes generally accepted actuarial methods applied to historical claim and loss experience. In addition, we use assumptions based on actuarial judgment related to claim and loss development patterns and expected loss costs, which consider frequency trends, severity trends, and relevant industry data. These reserves are continually reviewed and adjusted as experience develops and new information becomes known. Adjustments, if any, relating to accidents that occurred in prior years are reflected in the current year results of operations. All estimates of ultimate losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses, and of resulting reserves, are subject to inherent variability caused by the nature of the insurance claim settlement process. Such variability is increased for us due to limited historical experience and the nature of the coverage provided. Actual results depend upon the outcome of future contingent events and can be affected by many factors, such as claim settlement processes and changes in the economic, legal, and social environments. As a result, the net amounts that will ultimately be paid to settle the liability, and when these amounts will be paid, may vary in the near term from the estimated amounts. While management believes that the insurance reserve amount is adequate, the ultimate liability may be in excess of, or less than, the amount provided. Stock-Based Compensation We have granted stock-based awards consisting primarily of stock options, restricted common stock, RSUs, warrants, and SARs to employees, members of our board of directors, and non-employee advisors. The substantial majority of our stock-based awards have been made to employees. The majority of our outstanding RSUs, as well as certain options, SARs, and shares of restricted common stock, contain both a service-based vesting condition and a liquidity-event based vesting condition. The service-based vesting condition for the majority of these awards is satisfied over four years. The liquidity event-based vesting condition is satisfied upon the occurrence of a qualifying event, which is generally defined as a change in control transaction or the effective date of an initial public offering (“IPO”). Prior to our IPO in May 2019, no qualifying event had occurred, and we did not recognized any stock-based compensation expense for the RSUs and other awards with both a service-based vesting condition and a liquidity event-based vesting condition. We account for stock-based employee compensation under the fair value recognition and measurement provisions, in accordance with applicable accounting standards, which requires compensation expense for the grant-date fair value of stock-based awards to be recognized over the requisite service period. We account for forfeitures when they occur. We have elected to use the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to determine the fair value of stock options, warrants, and SARs on the grant date. The Black-Scholes option-pricing model requires certain subjective inputs and assumptions, including the fair value of our common stock, the expected term, risk-free interest rates, expected stock price volatility, and expected dividend yield of our common stock. These assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, other than the fair value of our common stock (see the section titled “-Common Stock Valuations” below), are estimated as follows: • Expected term . We estimate the expected term based on the simplified method for employees and on the contractual term for non-employees. • Risk-free interest rate . The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. • Expected volatility . We estimate the volatility of our common stock on the date of grant based on the weighted-average historical stock price volatility of comparable publicly-traded companies in our industry group. • Expected dividend yield . Expected dividend yield is zero percent, as we have not paid and do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock. We continue to use judgment in evaluating the expected volatility and expected term utilized in our stock-based compensation expense calculation on a prospective basis. As we continue to accumulate additional data related to our common stock, we may refine our estimates of expected volatility and expected term, which could materially impact our future stock-based compensation expense. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 - Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.