********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or future growth. We could also be affected by additional risks that apply to all companies operating in the United States, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial. You should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before making an investment in our common stock. Business, Operational and Strategic Risks We may not be able to sustain our growth plans and successfully implement our long-range strategic, operational and financial plans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. Our continued and future growth largely depends on our ability to implement our long-range strategic, operational and financial plans and successfully open and operate new stores on a profitable basis. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our growth plans, long-range strategic imperatives and/or operational excellence priorities, including continuous improvement, Project SOAR (our replacement enterprise resource planning platform) and supply chain optimization, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. If we are unable to gauge beauty trends and react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner, our sales may decrease. We believe our success depends in substantial part on our ability to: If we are unable to anticipate and fulfill the merchandise needs of the consumer, our net sales may decrease and we may be forced to increase markdowns of slow-moving merchandise, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. Any significant interruption in the operations of our distribution centers could disrupt our ability to deliver merchandise to our stores in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. We distribute products to our stores without supplementing such deliveries with direct-to-store arrangements from vendors or wholesalers. We are a retailer carrying over 25,000 beauty products that change on a regular basis in response to beauty trends, which makes the success of our operations particularly vulnerable to disruptions in our distribution infrastructure. Any significant interruption in the operation of our supply chain infrastructure, such as disruptions in our information systems, disruptions in operations due to fire, natural disasters, or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements, inventory availability, or shipping and transportation problems, could drastically reduce our ability to 14 receive and process orders and provide products and services to our stores and guests, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. In addition, shipping and transportation costs represent a component of our cost structure and an increase in shipping and transportation costs, including as a result of inflationary pressures, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. Our e-commerce platform exposes us to certain additional risks which could adversely affect our results of operations. We offer most of our beauty products for sale through our Ulta.com website and through our mobile applications. As a result, we encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by internet-based businesses, including risks related to our ability to attract and retain customers on a cost-effective basis and our ability to operate, support, expand, and develop our internet operations, website, mobile applications and software, and other related operational systems. Although we believe that our omnichannel participation is a distinct advantage for us due to synergies and the potential for new customers, supporting product offerings through these channels can create issues that have the potential to adversely affect our results of operations. For example, if our e-commerce platform successfully grows, it may do so in part by attracting existing guests, rather than new guests, who choose to purchase products from us online or through our mobile applications rather than from our physical stores, thereby reducing the financial performance of our stores. In addition, offering different products through each channel could cause conflicts and cause some of our current or potential internet or mobile customers to consider competing distributors of beauty products. Offering products through our internet channel or through our mobile applications could also cause some of our current or potential vendors to consider competing internet or mobile offerings of their products either on their own or through competing distributors. Additionally, omnichannel retailing is rapidly evolving, and we must keep pace with changing guest expectations and new developments by our competitors. As we continue to grow our e-commerce platform, the impact of attracting existing rather than new guests, conflicts between product offerings online or through our mobile applications and through our stores, and opening up our channels to increased competition from pure-play e-commerce companies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. In addition, if we are unable to make, improve, or develop relevant guest-facing technology in a timely manner, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Increased costs or interruption in our third-party vendors’ overseas sourcing operations could disrupt production, shipment, or receipt of some of our merchandise, which could result in lost sales and could increase our costs. We directly source the majority of our Ulta Beauty branded product components and gifts with purchase and other promotional products through third-party vendors using foreign factories. In addition, many of our vendors use overseas sourcing to varying degrees to manufacture some or all of their products. Any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports from such foreign countries, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, geo-political events, unanticipated political changes, increased customs duties, and legal or economic restrictions on overseas suppliers’ ability to produce and deliver products, could result in substantial disruptions in our supply chain (including inventory availability) and materially harm our operations. We have no long-term supply contracts with respect to such foreign-sourced items, many of which are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs, or quotas that may limit the quantity of certain types of goods that may be imported into the United States from such countries. Our business is also subject to a variety of other risks generally associated with sourcing goods from abroad, such as political instability, disruption of imports by labor disputes, and local business practices. Our sourcing operations may also be hurt by health concerns regarding infectious diseases in countries in which our merchandise is produced (such as COVID-19), adverse weather conditions or natural disasters that may occur overseas, or acts of war or terrorism in the United States or worldwide, to the extent these acts affect the production, shipment, or receipt of merchandise. Our future operations and performance will be subject to these factors, and these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows or may require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs. 15 Diversion of exclusive salon products, or a decision by manufacturers of exclusive salon products to utilize other distribution channels, could negatively impact our revenue from the sale of such products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. The retail products that we sell in our salons are meant to be sold exclusively by professional salons and authorized professional retail outlets. However, incidents of product diversion occur, which involve the selling of salon exclusive haircare products to unauthorized channels such as drug stores, grocery stores, or mass merchandisers. Diversion could result in adverse publicity that harms the commercial prospects of our products (if diverted products are old, tainted, or damaged), as well as lower product revenues should consumers choose to purchase diverted product from these channels rather than purchasing from one of our salons. Additionally, the various product manufacturers could, in the future, decide to utilize other distribution channels for such products, therefore widening the availability of these products in other retail channels, which could negatively impact the revenue we earn from the sale of such products. The capacity of our distribution and order fulfillment infrastructure and the performance of our distribution centers and fast fulfillment centers may not be adequate to support our expected future growth plans, which could prevent the successful implementation of these plans or cause us to incur excess costs to expand this infrastructure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. We currently operate four distribution centers, which house the distribution operations for Ulta Beauty retail stores together with the order fulfillment operations of our e-commerce platform, and two fast fulfillment centers (e-commerce only). In 2014, we began a multi-year supply chain project, which focused on, among other things, adding capacity and system improvements to support expanded omnichannel capabilities. To support our expected future growth and to maintain the efficient operation of our business, it is likely additional distribution facilities will be added in the future. Our failure to effectively upgrade and expand our distribution capacity on a timely basis to keep pace with our anticipated growth in stores and the performance of our distribution centers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. Our comparable sales and quarterly financial performance may fluctuate for a variety of reasons, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. Our comparable sales and quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. A variety of factors affect our comparable sales and quarterly financial performance, including: ​ Accordingly, our results for any one fiscal quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any other quarter, and comparable sales for any particular future period may decrease. In that event, the price of our common stock may decline. 16 We rely on our good relationships with brand partners to purchase prestige, mass, and salon beauty products on reasonable terms. If these relationships were to be impaired, or if certain brand partners were to change their distribution model, or are unable to supply sufficient merchandise to keep pace with our growth plans, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient selection or volume of merchandise on reasonable terms, and we may not be able to respond promptly to changing trends in beauty products, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. We have no long-term supply agreements with brand partners and, therefore, our success depends on maintaining good relationships with our brand partners. Our business depends to a significant extent on the willingness and ability of our brand partners to supply us with a sufficient selection and volume of products to stock our stores. Some of our prestige brand partners may not have the capacity to supply us with sufficient merchandise to keep pace with our growth plans. We also have strategic partnerships with certain core brands, which have allowed us to benefit from the growing popularity of such brands. Any of our other core brands could in the future decide to scale back or end its partnership with us and strengthen its relationship with our competitors, which could negatively impact the revenue we earn from the sale of such products. If we fail to maintain strong relationships with our existing brand partners, or if we fail to continue acquiring and strengthening relationships with additional brand partners of beauty products, our ability to obtain a sufficient amount and variety of merchandise on reasonable terms may be limited, which could have a negative impact on our competitive position. During fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020, merchandise supplied to Ulta Beauty by our top ten brand partners accounted for approximately 54% and 56% of our net sales, respectively. There continues to be vendor consolidation within the beauty products industry. The loss of or a reduction in the amount of merchandise made available to us by any one of these key vendors, or by any of our other brand partners, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. Use of social media may adversely impact our reputation. There has been a substantial increase in the use of social media platforms, including blogs, social media websites, and other forms of internet-based and mobile communications, which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. Negative commentary regarding us or the products we sell may be posted on social media platforms and similar devices at any time and may be adverse to our reputation or business. Customers value readily available information and often act on such information without further investigation and without regard to its accuracy or source. The harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. We also use social media platforms as marketing tools. For example, we maintain Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, TikTok, and Pinterest accounts. As laws and regulations rapidly evolve to govern the use of these platforms and devices, the failure by us, our employees, or third parties acting at our direction to abide by applicable laws and regulations in the use of these platforms and devices could adversely impact our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. If we fail to retain our existing senior management team or attract qualified new personnel at all levels, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. Our business requires disciplined execution at all levels of our organization. This execution requires an experienced and talented management team. If we were to lose the benefit of the experience, efforts, and abilities of key executive personnel, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. Furthermore, our ability to manage our retail expansion will require us to continue to train, motivate, and manage our associates. We will need to attract, motivate, and retain additional qualified executive, managerial, and merchandising personnel and store and distribution center associates. Competition for this type of personnel is intense, especially in light of the labor pressures resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, and we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating, and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably. In addition, fluctuations in the cost of labor, including as a result of inflationary pressures on wages, could negatively impact our profitability and cash flows. 17 Our secured revolving credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants that could limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to open stores. We have a $1.0 billion secured revolving credit facility with a term expiring in March 2025. Substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral for outstanding borrowings under the agreement. Outstanding borrowings bear interest at either a base rate plus a margin of 0% to 0.125% or the London Interbank Offered Rate plus a margin of 1.125% to 1.25% and the unused line fee is 0.20% per annum. The credit facility agreement contains usual and customary restrictive covenants relating to our management and the operation of our business. These covenants, among other things, limit our ability to grant liens on our assets, incur additional indebtedness, pay cash dividends and redeem our stock, enter into transactions with affiliates, and merge or consolidate with another entity. These covenants could restrict our operational flexibility and any failure to comply with these covenants or our payment obligations would limit our ability to borrow under the credit facility and, in certain circumstances, may allow the lenders thereunder to require repayment. Economic, Market and Other External Risks The health of the economy may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items such as beauty products and salon services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. Our results of operations may be materially affected by conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally. We appeal to a wide demographic consumer profile and offer an extensive selection of beauty products sold directly to retail consumers and premium salon services. Uncertainty in the economy could adversely impact consumer purchases of discretionary items across all of our product categories, including prestige beauty products and premium salon services. Factors that could affect consumers’ willingness to make such discretionary purchases include: general business conditions, inflationary pressures, levels of employment, interest rates, tax rates, the availability of consumer credit, consumer confidence in future economic conditions, and risks related to epidemics or pandemics like COVID-19 and geo-political events. In the event of a prolonged period of inflation, a prolonged economic downturn or an acute recession, consumer spending habits could be adversely affected, and we could experience lower than expected net sales. In addition, a general deterioration in economic conditions could adversely affect our commercial partners including our brand partners as well as the real estate developers and landlords who we rely on to construct and operate centers in which our stores are located. A bankruptcy or financial failure of a significant vendor or a number of significant real estate developers or shopping center landlords could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. Additionally, volatility and disruption to the capital and credit markets may have a significant, adverse impact on global economic conditions, resulting in inflationary or recessionary pressures and declines in consumer confidence and economic growth, which, in turn, may lead to declines in consumer spending. Reduced consumer spending could cause changes in customer order patterns and changes in the level of merchandise purchased by our customers, and may signify a reset of consumer spending habits, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. The COVID-19 pandemic has had, and will continue to have, a negative impact on our business, financial condition, profitability, cash flows and supply chain, as well as consumer spending. ​ The COVID-19 pandemic resulted in federal, state, and local governments implementing numerous measures to try to contain the virus, such as travel restrictions, border closings, restrictions on public gatherings, quarantining of people who may have been exposed to the virus, shelter-in-place restrictions, and limitations or shutdowns of business operations.  In response to government recommendations and for the health and safety of our associates (i.e., employees) and guests, on March 19, 2020 we temporarily closed all stores across the U.S.  As a result of this decision, we experienced a significant reduction in customer traffic and demand which resulted in our sales and results of operations being negatively impacted in fiscal 2020. While we have reopened all stores and resumed most of our in-store services, the potential temporary reclosing of certain stores in the future is possible.  COVID-19 could also negatively impact our future results of operations by weakening demand for our products and services and/or by disrupting our supply chain. The pandemic and its various impacts have also changed consumer behavior and consumption of beauty products due to the closures of offices, retail stores and other businesses and the significant decline in social gatherings. 18 The COVID-19 pandemic has had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on our business, financial condition, profitability, cash flows and supply chain, although the full extent is still uncertain. As the pandemic continues to evolve and new variants continue to emerge, the extent of the impact on our business, financial condition, profitability, cash flows and supply chain will depend on future developments, including, but not limited to, the potential temporary reclosing of certain of our stores, the potential temporary restrictions on certain of our stores operating hours and/or in store capacity, the duration of potential future quarantines, shelter-in-place and other travel restrictions within U.S. and other affected countries, the continued duration of the pandemic, government actions to contain the virus and/or treat its impact, the duration, timing and severity of the impact on consumer spending, and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume, all of which are still uncertain and cannot be predicted. Epidemics, pandemics like COVID-19, natural disasters, or other catastrophes or crises that have and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. ​ Epidemics, pandemics, or other public health crises, natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornados, wildfires, earthquakes, and mudslides, as well as acts of violence or terrorism, have resulted in the temporary closure of our stores and, in the future, could also result in physical damage to our properties, the temporary reclosing of our stores, the temporary closing of our distribution centers and fast fulfillment centers, the temporary lack of an adequate work force, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products (or a substantial increase in the cost of those products) from domestic or foreign suppliers, the temporary disruption in the delivery of goods both to and from our distribution centers and fast fulfillment centers (or a substantial increase in the cost of those deliveries), the temporary reduction in the availability of products in our stores and/or the temporary reduction in visits to stores by customers.  Accordingly, if one or more epidemics, pandemics, natural disasters, and/or acts of violence or terrorism were to occur (as it is with the continuing COVID-19 pandemic), it has and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows or may require us to incur increased costs. We may be unable to compete effectively in our highly competitive markets. The markets for beauty products and salon services are highly competitive with few barriers to entry. We compete against a diverse group of retailers, both small and large, including regional and national department stores, specialty retailers, drug stores, mass merchandisers, high-end and discount salon chains, locally owned beauty retailers and salons, online capabilities of national retailers, pure-play e-commerce companies, catalog retailers, and direct response television, including television home shopping retailers and infomercials. We believe the principal bases upon which we compete are the breadth of merchandise, our value proposition, the quality of our guests’ shopping experience, and the convenience of our stores as one-stop destinations for beauty products and salon services. Many of our competitors are, and many of our potential competitors may be, larger and have greater financial, marketing, and other resources and therefore, may be able to adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, generate greater national brand recognition, or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. As a result, we may lose market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. A reduction in traffic to, or the closing of, the other destination retailers in the shopping areas where our stores are located could significantly reduce our sales and leave us with excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. As a result of our real estate strategy, most of our stores are located in off-mall shopping areas known as power centers. Power centers typically contain three to five big-box anchor stores along with a variety of smaller specialty tenants. As a consequence of most of our stores being located in such shopping areas, our sales are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic generated by the other destination retailers and the anchor stores in power centers where our stores are located. Customer traffic to these shopping areas may be adversely affected by the closing of such destination retailers or anchor stores, or by a reduction in traffic to such stores resulting from a regional or global economic downturn, an outbreak of flu or other viruses (such as COVID-19), a general downturn in the local area where our store is located, or a decline in the desirability of the shopping environment of a particular power center. Such a reduction in customer traffic would reduce our sales and leave us with excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. We may respond by increasing markdowns, initiating marketing 19 promotions, or transferring product to other stores to reduce excess inventory, which would further decrease our gross profits and net income. Increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials used to build and remodel our stores could hurt our profitability. The raw materials used to build and remodel our stores are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, government regulations, general economic conditions, inflationary pressures and other unpredictable factors. As a retailer engaged in an active building and remodeling program, we are particularly vulnerable to increases in construction and remodeling costs. As a result, increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. Our stock repurchase programs could affect the price of our common stock and increase volatility and may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock. We may have in place from time to time, a stock repurchase program. Any such stock repurchase program adopted will not obligate the Company to repurchase any dollar amount or number of shares of common stock and may be suspended or discontinued at any time, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased under any such stock repurchase program depends on a variety of factors including the timing of open trading windows, price, corporate and regulatory requirements, and other market conditions. We may affect repurchases under any stock repurchase program from time to time in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, including accelerated stock repurchase arrangements. Repurchases pursuant to any such stock repurchase program could affect our stock price and increase its volatility. The existence of a stock repurchase program could also cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock. There can be no assurance that any stock repurchases will enhance stockholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased shares of common stock. Although our stock repurchase program is intended to enhance stockholder value, short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program’s effectiveness. Climate change might adversely impact our business operations and/or our supply chain. ​ Scientific consensus shows that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere have caused and will in the future cause changes in weather patterns around the globe. Climatologists predict these changes will result in the increased frequency of extreme weather events and natural disasters which could disrupt our business operations or those of our suppliers. These weather events could also lead to an increased rate of temporary store closures and reduced customer traffic at our stores. In addition, concern about climate change and greenhouse gases may result in new or additional legal, legislative, and/or regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of climate change on the environment. Any such new requirements could increase our operating costs for things like energy or packaging, as well as our product supply chain and distribution costs. ​ There is also increased focus, including by investors, guests, and other stakeholders, on climate change and other environmental, social, governance (ESG) and sustainability matters, including single use plastic, energy, waste and worker safety. ​ Concern about climate change might cause consumer preferences to change, including moving away from products or ingredients considered to have high climate change impact and towards products that are more sustainably made, and we expect to incur additional costs in connection with our ESG and sustainability initiatives. ​ Our reputation could be damaged if we do not (or are perceived not to) act responsibly with respect to these matters and, taken together, these matters could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows, as well as our ability to meet the needs of our customers. ​ ​ ​ 20 Information Security, Cybersecurity, Data Privacy, Regulatory and Legal Risks ​ Cybersecurity or information security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information, result in the unauthorized disclosure of confidential guest, employee, Company and/or business partners’ information, damage our reputation, and expose us to liability, which could negatively impact our business. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect, process, and store sensitive and confidential data, including our proprietary business information and that of our guests, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our guests and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance, and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools, and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission, and storage of confidential information. Despite the security measures we have in place and continual vigilance in regard to the protection of sensitive information, our systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, denial-of-service attacks , break-ins, phishing attacks, social engineering, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, human errors, or other similar events. Furthermore, we allow certain of our employees to work remotely, as certain of our third-party service providers also allow, and this remote working environment may increase cybersecurity related risks. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost, or stolen. Any such access, disclosure, or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our business, products, and services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. We are subject to risks relating to our information technology systems, and any failure to adequately protect our critical information technology systems, successfully upgrade our information technology systems or any material disruption of our information systems could negatively impact financial results and materially adversely affect our business operations, particularly during the holiday season. We are dependent on a variety of information systems, including management, supply chain and financial information, and various other processes and transactions, to effectively manage our business. We also plan to expand and upgrade our information systems (including replacing our enterprise resource planning platform through Project SOAR) to support historical and expected future growth. The failure of these projects, the failure of our information systems to perform as designed or breaches of security could have an adverse effect on our business and results of our operations. Any material disruption of our systems could disrupt our ability to track, record, and analyze the merchandise that we sell and could cause delays or cancellation of customer orders or impede the manufacture or shipment of products, the processing of transactions, our ability to receive and process e-commerce orders, and/or the reporting of financial results. Our e-commerce operations are increasingly important to our business. The Ulta.com website and our mobile applications serve as an effective extension of Ulta Beauty’s marketing and prospecting strategies by exposing potential new customers to the Ulta Beauty brand, product offerings, and enhanced content. As the importance of our website, mobile applications, and e-commerce operations to our business continues to grow, we are increasingly vulnerable to downtime and other technical failures. Our failure to successfully respond to these risks could reduce e-commerce sales and damage our brand’s reputation. Failure to maintain satisfactory compliance with applicable privacy and data protection laws and regulations may subject us to negative financial consequences, including civil or criminal penalties, and harm our brand and reputation. ​ Complex local, state and national laws and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer and other processing of personal data. These privacy and data protection laws and regulations are quickly evolving, with new or modified laws and regulations proposed and implemented frequently (such as those enacted by California and certain other states) and existing laws and regulations subject to new or different interpretations and enforcement. Complying with these laws and regulations may cause us to incur substantial costs, require changes to our business practices and limit our ability to obtain data used to provide a differentiated guest experience. In addition, our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or other obligations to which we may be subject relating to 21 personal data, or to protect personal data from unauthorized access, use or other processing, could result in enforcement actions and regulatory investigations against us, claims for damages by guests and other affected individuals, fines and/or damage to our brand and reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. ​ Litigation and other legal or regulatory proceedings or claims and the outcome of such litigation, proceedings or claims, including possible fines and penalties, could have a material adverse effect on our business and any loss contingency accruals may not be adequate to cover actual losses. From time to time, we are subject to litigation, including potential class action and single-plaintiff litigation and other legal or regulatory proceedings or claims in the ordinary course of our business operations regarding, but not limited to, employment matters, consumer claims, security of consumer and employee personal information, contractual relations with suppliers, marketing and infringement of trademarks, and other intellectual property rights. Litigation to defend ourselves against claims by third parties, or to enforce any rights that we may have against third parties, may be necessary, which could absorb significant management time, result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, causing a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. We establish accruals for potential liability arising from litigation and other legal or regulatory proceedings or claims when potential liability is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated based on currently available information. We may still incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not accrued a liability. In addition, actual losses may be higher than the amount accrued for a certain matter, or in the aggregate. Any resolution of litigation or other legal or regulatory proceedings or claims could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. Specifically, our technologies, promotional products purchased from third-party vendors, and/or Ulta Beauty branded products, or potential products in development may infringe rights under patents, patent applications, trademark, copyright, or other intellectual property rights of third parties in the United States and abroad. These third parties could bring claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a third party were to bring an intellectual property infringement suit against us, we could be forced to stop or delay development, manufacturing, or sales of the product that is the subject of the suit. As a result of intellectual property infringement claims, or to avoid potential claims, we may choose to seek, or be required to seek, a license from the third party and would most likely be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened intellectual property infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. Even if we were able to obtain a license, the rights may be non-exclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. The inability to enter into licenses could harm our business significantly. If our manufacturers are unable to produce products manufactured uniquely for Ulta Beauty, including Ulta Beauty branded products and gifts with purchase and other promotional products, consistent with applicable regulatory requirements, we could suffer lost sales and be required to take costly corrective action, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend upon independent third-party vendors for the manufacture of all products manufactured uniquely for Ulta Beauty, including the Ulta Beauty Collection and Ulta Beauty branded gifts with purchase and other promotional products. Our third-party manufacturers of Ulta Beauty products may not maintain adequate controls with respect to product specifications, content, labeling and/or quality and may not continue to produce products that are consistent with applicable regulatory requirements. If we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be required to take costly corrective action. In addition, sanctions under various laws may include seizure of products, injunctions against future shipment of products, restitution and disgorgement of profits, operating restrictions, and criminal prosecution. The FDA does not have a pre-market approval system for cosmetics, and we believe we are permitted to market our cosmetics and have them manufactured without submitting safety or efficacy data to the FDA. However, cosmetic products may become subject to more extensive regulation in the future. These events could interrupt the marketing and sale of our Ulta Beauty products, severely damage our brand reputation and image in the marketplace, increase the cost of our products, cause us 22 to fail to meet customer expectations, or cause us to be unable to deliver merchandise in sufficient quantities or of sufficient quality to our stores, any of which could result in lost sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. We, as well as our vendors, are subject to laws and regulations that could require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. In our U.S. markets, numerous laws and regulations at the federal, state, and local levels can affect our business. Legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. If we fail to comply with any present or future laws or regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities, a prohibition on the operation of our stores, or a prohibition on the sale of our Ulta Beauty branded products. In particular, failure to adequately comply with the following legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. The formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, sale, and storage of our vendors’ products and our Ulta Beauty branded products are also subject to extensive regulation by various federal agencies, including FDA, FTC, CPSC, and various state and local agencies, such as State AGs and District Attorneys. If we, our vendors, or the manufacturers of our Ulta Beauty branded products fail to comply with those regulations, we could become subject to significant penalties, claims, or product recalls, which could harm our results of operations, our reputation and/or our ability to conduct our business. Additionally, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may impair the marketability of our vendors’ products or our Ulta Beauty branded products, resulting in significant loss of net sales. Our failure to comply with federal, state, or local requirements when we advertise our products (including prices) or services, or engage in other promotional activities, in digital (including social media), television, or print may result in enforcement actions and imposition of penalties or otherwise harm the distribution and sale of our products. Our associates or others may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with our policies and procedures. We are exposed to the risk of misconduct or other improper activities by our associates and third parties such as independent contractors or agents. Misconduct by associates, independent contractors, or agents could include inadvertent or intentional failures to comply with our policies and procedures, the laws and regulations to which we are subject, and/or ethical, social, product, labor, and environmental standards. Our current and former associates or independent contractors may also become subject to allegations of sexual harassment, racial and gender discrimination, or other similar misconduct, which, regardless or the ultimate outcome, may result in adverse publicity that could significantly harm our brand, reputation, and operations. Associate misconduct could also involve improper use of information obtained in the course of the associate’s prior or current employment, which could result in legal or regulatory action and harm to our reputation. ​ 23 If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our brand and reputation could be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. We regard our trademarks, trade dress, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how, and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. Our principal intellectual property rights include registered and common law trademarks on “The Possibilities are Beautiful. ® ,” “Ulta Beauty,” “Ulta,” and other marks incorporating our name and “All Things Beauty. All in One Place ® ,” “21 Days of Beauty ® ,” and “Conscious Beauty at Ulta Beauty ® ,” copyrights in our website and mobile applications content, rights to our domain name www.ulta.com, and trade secrets and know-how with respect to our Ulta Beauty branded product formulations, product sourcing, sales and marketing and other aspects of our business, and our digital innovations such as try-on applications and artificial intelligence. As such, we rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality agreements with certain of our employees, consultants, suppliers, and others to protect our proprietary rights. If we are unable to protect or preserve the value of our trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, or other proprietary rights for any reason (including any cybersecurity incident that results in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights), or if other parties infringe on our intellectual property rights, our brand and reputation could be impaired and we could lose customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. In addition, we license certain of our trademarks to some of our business partners. While we enter into comprehensive agreements with our business partners covering, among other things, use of our brand name, the value of our brand and our reputation could be impaired to the extent that our business partners do not operate their businesses, including their stores or websites, in a manner consistent with our requirements regarding our brand identities and customer experience standards. Failure to protect the value of our brands, or any other harmful acts or omissions by a business partner, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, cash flows and reputation. ​ Our Ulta Beauty branded products and salon services may cause unexpected and undesirable side effects that could result in their discontinuance or expose us to lawsuits, either of which could result in unexpected costs and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows . Unexpected and undesirable side effects caused by our Ulta Beauty branded products for which we have not provided sufficient label warnings or salon services, which may have been performed negligently, could result in the discontinuance of sales of our products or of certain salon services or prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected products and services. Such side effects could also expose us to product liability or negligence lawsuits. Any claims brought against us may exceed our existing or future insurance policy coverage or limits. Any judgment against us that is in excess of our policy limits would have to be paid from our cash reserves, which would reduce our capital resources. These events could cause negative publicity regarding our Company, brand, or products, which could in turn harm our reputation and net sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may discourage or prevent a change in control, even if a sale of the Company would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could cause our stock price to decline and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock, and harm the market price of our common stock and diminish the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. These provisions include: 24 We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years after the stockholder becomes a 15% stockholder, subject to specified exceptions. Together, these provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of Delaware law could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Overview We were founded in 1990 as a beauty retailer at a time when prestige, mass, and salon products were sold through distinct channels – department stores for prestige products; drug stores and mass merchandisers for mass products; and salons and authorized retail outlets for professional hair care products. We developed a unique specialty retail concept that offers a broad range of brands and price points, select beauty services, and a convenient and welcoming shopping environment. We define our target consumer as a beauty enthusiast, a consumer who is passionate about the beauty category, uses beauty for self-expression, experimentation and self-investment, and has high expectations for the shopping experience. We estimate that female beauty enthusiasts represent approximately 60% of shoppers and 75% of spend in the U.S. beauty category. We believe our strategy provides us with the competitive advantages that have contributed to our financial performance. Today, we are the largest beauty retailer in the United States and the premier beauty destination for cosmetics, fragrance, skin care products, hair care products, and salon services. Key aspects of our business include: a differentiated assortment of more than 25,000 beauty products across a variety of categories and price points as well as a variety of beauty services, including salon services, in more than 1,300 stores predominantly located in convenient, high-traffic locations; engaging digital experiences delivered through our website, ulta.com, and our mobile applications; our best-in-class loyalty program that enables members to earn points for every dollar spent on products and beauty services and provides us with deep, proprietary customer insights; and our ability to cultivate human connection with warm and welcoming guest experiences across all of our channels. The continued growth of our business and any future increases in net sales, net income, and cash flows is dependent on our ability to execute our strategic priorities: 1) drive breakthrough and disruptive growth through an expanded definition of All Things Beauty, 2) evolve the omnichannel experience through connected physical and digital ecosystems, All In Your World, 3) expand and deepen our presence across the beauty journey, solidifying Ulta Beauty at the Heart of the Beauty Community, 4) drive operational excellence and optimization, 5) protect and cultivate our world-class culture and talent, and 6) expand our environmental and social impact. We believe that the attractive and growing U.S. beauty products and salon services industry, the expanding definition of beauty and role that omnichannel capabilities play in consumers’ lives, coupled with Ulta Beauty’s competitive strengths, position us to capture additional market share in the industry. Comparable sales is a key metric that is monitored closely within the retail industry. Our comparable sales have fluctuated in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. A variety of factors affect our comparable sales, including general U.S. economic conditions, changes in merchandise strategy or mix, and timing and effectiveness of our marketing activities, among others. Over the long term, our growth strategy is to increase total net sales through growing our comparable sales, expanding omnichannel capabilities, and opening new stores. Long-term operating profit is expected to increase as a result of our efforts to optimize our real estate portfolio, expand merchandise margin and leverage our fixed store costs with comparable sales increases and operating efficiencies, partially offset by incremental investments in people, systems, and supply chain required to support a 1,500 to 1,700 store chain in the U.S. with successful e-commerce and competitive omnichannel capabilities. Current Trends Impact of COVID-19 As previously discussed, our results of operations for fiscal 2020 were significantly impacted by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. During fiscal 2021, we continued to closely monitor the impact of COVID-19 on all facets of our 31 business. As we navigated the impact of the pandemic, we proactively took steps to optimize our cost structure, while also investing in new capabilities to support future growth . During fiscal 2021, we experienced an increase in sales driven primarily by the favorable impact from stronger consumer confidence, government stimulus payments, and the easing of COVID-19 restrictions. While operations during fiscal 2021 did not appear to be as negatively impacted, the continuing COVID-19 pandemic could have additional negative impacts in the future. The extent of the impact of the pandemic on our business and financial results will depend on future developments, including, but not limited to, the potential temporary reclosing of certain stores, the potential temporary restrictions on certain store operating hours and/or in-store capacity, the duration of potential future quarantines, shelter-in-place and other travel restrictions within the U.S. and other affected countries, supply chain disruptions, increased freight costs and higher wholesale costs, the continued duration of the pandemic and any variants of the virus, the duration, timing and severity of the impact on consumer spending, the timing and effectiveness of vaccine distribution, vaccination rates, and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume. ​ Industry trend s ​ Our research indicates that Ulta Beauty has captured meaningful market share across all categories over the last several years. However, the COVID-19 pandemic and its various impacts have changed consumer behavior and consumption of beauty products due to the closures of offices, retail stores and other businesses and the significant decline in travel, entertainment and social gatherings. The overall beauty market declined in 2020 but stabilized in 2021, as consumers began to recover from the impacts of COVID-19. We remain confident that our differentiated and diverse business model, our commitment to strategic investments, and our highly engaged associates will continue to drive market share gains over the long term. ​ Impact of inflation and changing prices Although we do not believe that inflation has had a material impact on our financial position or results of operations to date, a high rate of inflation in the future may have an adverse effect on our ability to maintain current levels of gross margin and selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales if the selling prices of our products do not increase with these increased costs. In addition, inflation could materially increase the interest rates on any future debt. Basis of presentation ​ The Company has one reportable segment, which includes retail stores, salon services, and e-commerce. We recognize merchandise revenue at the point of sale in our retail stores. E-commerce sales are recognized upon shipment or guest pickup of the merchandise based on meeting the transfer of control criteria. Retail store and e-commerce sales are recorded net of estimated returns. Shipping and handling are treated as costs to fulfill the contract and not a separate performance obligation. Accordingly, we recognize revenue for our single performance obligation related to online sales at the time control of the merchandise passes to the customer, which is at the time of shipment or guest pickup. We provide refunds for merchandise returns within 60 days from the original purchase date. State sales taxes are presented on a net basis as we consider our self a pass-through conduit for collecting and remitting state sales tax. Salon service revenue is recognized at the time the service is provided to the guest. Gift card sales revenue is deferred until the guest redeems the gift card. Company coupons and other incentives are recorded as a reduction of net sales. Other revenue sources include the private label and co-branded credit card programs and royalties derived from the partnership with Target, as well as deferred revenue related to the loyalty program and gift card breakage. ​ Comparable sales reflect sales for stores beginning on the first day of the 14 th month of operation. Therefore, a store is included in our comparable store base on the first day of the period after one year of operations plus the initial one-month grand opening period. Non-comparable store sales include sales from new stores that have not yet completed their 13 th month of operation and stores that were closed for part or all of the period in either year. Remodeled stores are included in comparable sales unless the store was closed for a portion of the current or prior period. Comparable sales 32 include retail sales and salon services (including stores temporarily closed due to COVID-19), and e-commerce. There may be variations in the way in which some of our competitors and other retailers calculate comparable or same store sales. Measuring comparable sales allows us to evaluate the performance of our store base as well as several other aspects of our overall strategy. Several factors could positively or negatively impact our comparable sales results: Cost of sales includes: Our cost of sales may be negatively impacted as we open new stores. Changes in our merchandise or channel mix may also have an impact on cost of sales. This presentation of items included in cost of sales may not be comparable to the way in which our competitors or other retailers compute their cost of sales. Selling, general and administrative expenses include: This presentation of items in selling, general and administrative expenses may not be comparable to the way in which our competitors or other retailers compute their selling, general and administrative expenses. Impairment, restructuring and other costs include long-lived asset impairment charges, restructuring costs associated with store closings, costs associated with the suspension of our Canadian expansion, and employee related severance costs. Pre-opening expenses include non-capital expenditures during the period prior to store opening for new, remodeled, and relocated stores including rent during the construction period for new and relocated stores, store set-up labor, management and employee training, and grand opening advertising. 33 Interest expense, net includes both interest expense and income. Interest expense includes interest costs and facility fees associated with our credit facility, which is structured as an asset-based lending instrument. Our credit facility interest is based on a variable interest rate structure which can result in increased cost in periods of rising interest rates. Interest income represents interest from cash equivalents and short-term investments with maturities of twelve months or less from the date of purchase. Income tax expense reflects the federal statutory tax rate and the weighted average state statutory tax rate for the states in which we operate stores. Results of operations Our fiscal years are the 52- or 53-week periods ending on the Saturday closest to January 31. The Company’s fiscal years ended January 29, 2022 (fiscal 2021), January 30, 2021 (fiscal 2020), and February 1, 2020 (fiscal 2019) were all 52-week years. As of January 29, 2022, we operated 1,308 stores across 50 states. The following tables present the components of our consolidated results of operations for the periods indicated: ​ ​ ​ 34 Fiscal year 2021 versus fiscal year 2020 Net sales Net sales increased $2.5 billion, or 40.3%, to $8.6 billion in fiscal 2021 compared to $6.2 billion in fiscal 2020. The net sales increase was primarily due to the favorable impact from stronger consumer confidence, government stimulus payments, and the easing of COVID-19 restrictions, and an increase of $15.1 million in other revenue. The total comparable sales increase of 37.9% in fiscal 2021, compared to a decrease of 17.9% in fiscal 2020, was driven by a 30.0% increase in transactions and a 6.0% increase in average ticket. ​ Gross profit Gross profit increased $1.4 billion, or 72.8%, to $3.4 billion in fiscal 2021, compared to $1.9 billion in fiscal 2020. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales increased 730 basis points to 39.0% in fiscal 2021 compared to 31.7% in fiscal 2020. The increase in gross profit margin was primarily due to: ​ Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased $0.5 billion, or 30.2%, to $2.1 billion in fiscal 2021 compared to $1.6 billion in fiscal 2020. As a percentage of net sales, SG&A expenses decreased 180 basis points to 23.9% in fiscal 2021 compared to 25.7% in fiscal 2020. The leverage in SG&A expenses was primarily due to: ​ Impairment, restructuring and other costs There were no impairment, restructuring and other costs recognized in fiscal 2021 compared to $114.3 million for fiscal 2020, which consisted of $41.9 million due to the impairment of tangible long-lived assets and operating lease assets associated with certain retail stores, $29.1 million related to the suspension of the planned expansion to Canada, $27.5 million related to the permanent closure of 19 stores, and $15.8 million of severance charges. ​ Pre-opening expenses Pre-opening expenses decreased $5.5 million, or 36.6%, to $9.5 million in fiscal 2021 compared to $15.0 million in fiscal 2020 due to current year real estate activity and stores expected to open in the first quarter of fiscal 2022 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2021. Interest expense, net Interest expense, net was $1.7 million in fiscal 2021 compared to $5.7 million of interest expense, net in fiscal 2020. Interest expense represents interest on borrowings and fees related to the credit facility. Interest income results from short-term investments. We did not have any outstanding borrowings on our credit facility as of January 29, 2022 and January 30, 2021. 35 Income tax expense Income tax expense of $310.0 million in fiscal 2021 represents an effective tax rate of 23.9%, compared to fiscal 2020 income tax expense of $55.3 million and an effective tax rate of 23.9%. The higher income tax expense is primarily due to higher operating income compared to fiscal 2020. ​ Net income Net income increased $810.0 million to $985.8 million in fiscal 2021 compared to $175.8 million in fiscal 2020. The increase in net income was primarily due to a $1.4 billion increase in gross profit and a $114.3 million decrease in impairment, restructuring and other costs, partially offset by a $0.5 billion increase in SG&A expenses and $254.7 million increase in income taxes. Fiscal year 2020 versus fiscal year 2019 Net sales Net sales decreased $1.2 billion, or 16.8%, to $6.2 billion in fiscal 2020 compared to $7.4 billion in fiscal 2019. The net sales decrease was driven by the negative impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, including the temporary closing of our brick-and-mortar retail stores, social distancing and quarantines, reduction of operating hours, and limitations on in-store capacity, and a decrease of $6.6 million in other revenue. Total comparable sales in fiscal 2020 decreased 17.9% compared to an increase of 5.0% in fiscal 2019. During fiscal 2020, transactions declined 24.5% and average ticket increased 8.8%. ​ Gross profit Gross profit decreased $0.7 billion, or 27.3%, to $1.9 billion in fiscal 2020, compared to $2.7 billion in fiscal 2019. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales decreased 450 basis points to 31.7% in fiscal 2020 compared to 36.2% in fiscal 2019. The decrease in gross profit margin was primarily due to: ​ Selling, general and administrative expenses SG&A expenses decreased $0.2 billion, or 10.1%, to $1.6 billion in fiscal 2020 compared to $1.8 billion in fiscal 2019. As a percentage of net sales, SG&A expenses increased 190 basis points to 25.7% in fiscal 2020 compared to 23.8% in fiscal 2019. The deleverage in SG&A expenses was primarily due to: ​ Impairment, restructuring and other costs Impairment, restructuring and other costs were $114.3 million for fiscal 2020, which consisted of $41.9 million due to the impairment of tangible long-lived assets and operating lease assets associated with certain retail stores, $29.1 million related to the suspension of the planned expansion to Canada, $27.5 million related to the permanent closure of 19 stores, 36 and $15.8 million of severance charges. All restructuring expenses were recognized in fiscal 2020. There was no impairment, restructuring and other costs in fiscal 2019. ​ Pre-opening expenses Pre-opening expenses decreased $4.3 million, or 22.1%, to $15.0 million in fiscal 2020 compared to $19.3 million in fiscal 2019 due to current year real estate activity and stores expected to open in the first quarter of fiscal 2021. During fiscal 2020, we opened 30 new stores and relocated five stores. During fiscal 2019, we opened 86 new stores, remodeled 12 stores, and relocated eight stores. Interest expense (income), net Interest expense, net was $5.7 million in fiscal 2020 compared to $5.1 million of interest income, net in fiscal 2019. Interest expense represents interest on borrowings and fees related to the credit facility. Interest income results from short-term investments. We did not have any outstanding borrowings on our credit facility as of January 30, 2021 and February 1, 2020. Income tax expense Income tax expense of $55.3 million in fiscal 2020 represents an effective tax rate of 23.9%, compared to fiscal 2019 income tax expense of $200.2 million and an effective tax rate of 22.1%. The higher effective tax rate is primarily due to less investment tax credits received and tax expense from the income tax accounting for stock-based compensation compared to a benefit in fiscal 2019. ​ Net income Net income decreased $530.1 million, or 75.1%, to $175.8 million in fiscal 2020 compared to $705.9 million in fiscal 2019. The decrease in net income was primarily due to a $731.9 million decrease in gross profit and a $114.3 million increase in impairment, restructuring and other costs, partially offset by a $177.6 million decrease in SG&A expenses and $145.0 million decrease in income taxes. Liquidity and capital resources Our primary sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operations, and borrowings under our credit facility. The most significant components of our working capital are merchandise inventories and cash and cash equivalents reduced by accounts payable, accrued expenses and deferred revenue. Our primary cash needs are for rent, capital expenditures for new, remodeled, and relocated stores, increased merchandise inventories related to store expansion and new brand additions, supply chain improvements, share repurchases, and continued improvement in our information technology systems. Our most significant ongoing short-term cash requirements relate primarily to funding operations (including expenditures for lease expenses, inventory, labor, distribution, advertising and marketing, and tax liabilities) as well as periodic spend for capital expenditures, investments, and share repurchases. Our working capital needs are greatest from August through November as a result of inventory build-up during this period for the holiday season. Long-term cash requirements primarily relate to funding lease expenses and other purchase commitments. We generally fund short-term and long-term cash requirements with cash from operating activities. We believe our primary sources of liquidity will satisfy our cash requirements over both the short-term (the next twelve months) and long-term. 37 The following table summarizes contractual cash requirements as of January 29, 2022: ​ Purchase obligations reflect legally binding agreements entered into by the Company to purchase goods or services. The amount of purchase obligations relates to commitments for products and services and other goods and service contracts entered into as of January 29, 2022. Excluded from purchase obligations are normal purchases and contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business. Cash flows We believe our ability to generate substantial cash from operating activities and readily secure financing at competitive rates are key strengths that give us significant flexibility to meet our short and long-term financial commitments. The following table presents a summary of our cash flows during the last three years: Operating activities Operating activities consist of net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, including depreciation and amortization, non-cash lease expense, long-lived asset impairment charges, deferred income taxes, stock-based compensation expense, realized gains or losses on disposal of property and equipment, and the effect of working capital changes. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2021 is mainly due to the increase in net income and deferred revenue, partially offset by higher merchandise inventories, higher cash outflow from higher income taxes, and lower long-lived asset impairment charges compared to fiscal 2020. The increase in net income was primarily due to an increase in gross profit resulting from higher sales and a decrease in impairment, restructuring and other costs, partially offset by an increase in SG&A expenses and income taxes. Merchandise inventories, net were $1.5 billion at January 29, 2022, compared to $1.2 billion at January 30, 2021, representing an increase of $331.0 million or 28.3%. The increase in total inventory was primarily driven by the addition of 44 net new stores opened since January 30, 2021, inventory to support new brand launches, and the acceleration of inventory receipts to support expected demand and mitigate anticipated global supply chain disruptions. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2020 relative to fiscal 2019 was primarily due to the decrease in net income, merchandise inventories, and the timing of accounts payable due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 38 ​ Investing activities We have historically used cash primarily for new, remodeled, relocated, and refreshed stores, supply chain investments, short-term investments, and investments in information technology systems. The increase in net cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2021 relative to fiscal 2020 was primarily due to less proceeds of short-term investments and more capital expenditures compared to fiscal 2020. The decrease in net cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2020 relative to fiscal 2019 was primarily due to less capital expenditures due to actions we took to preserve liquidity as we navigated through the COVID-19 pandemic and an increase in proceeds of short-term investments offset by less purchases of short-term investments. Capital expenditures ​ The following table presents a summary of our store activities during the last three years: ​ During fiscal 2021, the average investment required to open a new Ulta Beauty store was approximately $1.4 million, which includes capital investment net of landlord contributions, pre-opening expenses, and initial inventory net of payables. Capital expenditures during the last three years by major category are as follows: ​ Our future investments will depend primarily on the number of new, remodeled, and relocated stores, information technology systems investments, and supply chain investments that we undertake and the timing of these expenditures. Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe our sources of liquidity will be sufficient to fund future capital expenditures. We expect fiscal 2022 capital expenditures will be $425 million, and will be used to fund our new, remodeled, and relocated stores and strategic priorities, including investments in information technology systems and supply chain optimization. Financing activities Financing activities primarily include share repurchases, borrowing and repayment of our revolving credit facility, and capital stock transactions. Purchases of treasury shares represent the fair value of common shares repurchased from plan participants in connection with shares withheld to satisfy minimum statutory tax obligations upon the vesting of restricted stock. 39 The increase in net cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2021 relative to fiscal 2020 was primarily due to an increase in share repurchases offset by an increase in stock option exercises, and no activity under our revolving credit facility during fiscal 2021. The decrease in net cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2020 relative to fiscal 2019 was primarily due to borrowing and repayment under our revolving credit facility and the suspension of the share repurchase program in order to strengthen our liquidity and preserve cash while navigating the COVID-19 pandemic. We had no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility at the end of fiscal 2021, 2020, and 2019. The zero outstanding borrowings position is due to a combination of factors including sales demand, overall performance of management initiatives including expense control, and inventory and other working capital reductions. We may require borrowings under the facility from time to time in future periods for unexpected business disruptions, to support our new store program, seasonal inventory needs, or share repurchases. Share repurchase program In March 2019, the Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program (the 2019 Share Repurchase Program) pursuant to which the Company could repurchase up to $875.0 million of the Company’s common stock. The 2019 Share Repurchase Program authorization revoked the previously authorized but unused amount of $25.4 million from the earlier share repurchase program. The 2019 Share Repurchase Program did not have an expiration date but provided for suspension or discontinuation at any time. In March 2020, the Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program (the 2020 Share Repurchase Program) pursuant to which the Company could repurchase up to $1.6 billion of the Company’s common stock. The 2020 Share Repurchase Program authorization revoked the previously authorized but unused amount of $177.8 million from the 2019 Share Repurchase Program. The 2020 Share Repurchase Program did not have an expiration date but provided for suspension or discontinuation at any time. A summary of common stock repurchase activity is presented in the following table: ​ ​ On March 7, 2022, the Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program (the 2022 Share Repurchase Program) pursuant to which the Company may repurchase up to $2.0 billion of the Company’s common stock. The 2022 Share Repurchase Program authorization revokes the previously authorized but unused amounts from the 2020 Share Repurchase Program. The 2022 Share Repurchase Program does not have an expiration date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. ​ Credit facility On March 11, 2020, we entered into Amendment No. 1 to the Second Amended and Restated Loan Agreement (as so amended, the Loan Agreement) with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, Collateral Agent and a Lender thereunder; Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Lead Arrangers and Bookrunners; JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Syndication Agent and a Lender; PNC Bank, National Association, as Documentation Agent and a Lender; and the other lenders party thereto. The Loan Agreement matures on March 11, 2025, provides maximum revolving loans equal to the lesser of $1.0 billion or a percentage of eligible owned inventory and eligible owned receivables (which borrowing base may, at the election of the Company and satisfaction of certain conditions, include a percentage of qualified cash), contains a $50.0 million subfacility for letters of credit and allows the Company to increase the revolving facility by an additional $100.0 million, subject to the consent by each lender and other conditions. The Loan Agreement contains a requirement to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of not less than 40 1.0 to 1.0 during such periods when availability under the Loan Agreement falls below a specified threshold. Substantially all of the Company’s assets are pledged as collateral for outstanding borrowings under the Loan Agreement. Outstanding borrowings bear interest, at the Company’s election, at either a base rate plus a margin of 0% to 0.125% or the London Interbank Offered Rate plus a margin of 1.125% to 1.250%, with such margins based on the Company’s borrowing availability, and the unused line fee is 0.20% per annum. As of January 29, 2022 and January 30, 2021, we had no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility and we were in compliance with all terms and covenants of the Loan Agreement. Seasonality Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuation. Significant portions of our net sales and profits are realized during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year due to the holiday selling season. To a lesser extent, our business is also affected by Mother’s Day and Valentine’s Day. Any decrease in sales during these higher sales volume periods could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results for the entire fiscal year. Our quarterly results of operations have varied in the past and are likely to do so again in the future. As such, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. Critical accounting policies and estimates Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements required the use of estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses. Management bases estimates on historical experience and other assumptions it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances and evaluates these estimates on an on-going basis. Actual results may differ from these estimates. A discussion of our more significant estimates follows. Management has discussed the development, selection, and disclosure of these estimates and assumptions with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Inventory valuation Merchandise inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market (net realizable value). Cost is determined using the moving average cost method and includes costs incurred to purchase and distribute goods as well as related vendor allowances including co-op advertising, markdowns, and volume discounts. We record valuation adjustments to our inventories if the cost of a specific product on hand exceeds the amount we expect to realize from the ultimate sale or disposal of the inventory. These estimates are based on management’s judgment regarding future demand, age of inventory, and analysis of historical experience. If actual demand or market conditions are different than those projected by management, future merchandise margin rates may be unfavorably or favorably affected by adjustments to these estimates. Inventories are adjusted for the results of periodic physical inventory counts at each of our locations. We record a shrink reserve representing management’s estimate of inventory losses by location that have occurred since the date of the last physical count. This estimate is based on management’s analysis of historical results and operating trends. We do not believe that there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions we use to calculate our inventory reserves. Adjustments to earnings resulting from revisions to management’s estimates of the inventory reserves have been insignificant during fiscal 2021, 2020, and 2019. An increase or decrease in the lower of cost or market (net realizable value) reserve of 10% would not have a material impact on our operating income for fiscal 2021. An increase or decrease in the shrink rate included in the shrink reserve calculation of 10% would not have a material impact on our operating income for fiscal 2021. 41 Vendor allowances The majority of cash consideration received from a vendor is considered to be a reduction of the cost of the related products and is reflected in cost of sales in our consolidated statements of income as the related products are sold unless it is in exchange for an asset or service or a reimbursement of a specific, incremental, identifiable cost incurred by the Company in selling the vendors’ products. We estimate the amount recorded as a reduction of inventory at the end of each period based on a detailed analysis of inventory turns and management’s analysis of the facts and circumstances of the various contractual agreements with vendors. We record cash consideration expected to be received from vendors in receivables. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions we use to calculate our reduction of inventory. An increase or decrease in inventory turns of five basis points would not have a material impact on our operating income for fiscal 2021. Impairment of long-lived tangible assets We review long-lived tangible assets whenever events or circumstances indicate these assets might not be recoverable. Assets are primarily reviewed at the store level, which is the lowest level for which cash flows can be identified. Significant estimates are used in determining future operating results of each store over its remaining lease term. An impairment loss would be recorded if the carrying amount of the long-lived asset exceeds its fair value. We do not believe that there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions we use to calculate our impairment charges. During fiscal 2020, we recognized $72.5 million of impairment of long-lived tangible and right-of-use assets which consisted of $41.9 million due to impairment analysis which indicated that the carrying values of certain long-lived assets exceeded their respective fair values, $19.6 million related to the suspension of the planned expansion to Canada, and $11.0 million related to the permanent closure of 19 stores. No significant impairment charges were recognized in fiscal 2021 or fiscal 2019. Loyalty program We maintain a customer loyalty program, Ultamate Rewards, which allows members to earn points based on purchases of merchandise or services. Points earned are valid for at least one year. The loyalty program represents a material right to the customer and points may be redeemed on future products and services. Revenue from the loyalty program is recognized when the members redeem points or points expire. We defer revenue related to points earned that have not yet been redeemed. The amount of deferred revenue includes estimates for the standalone selling price of points earned by members and the percentage of points expected to be redeemed. The expected redemption percentage is based on historical redemption patterns and considers current information or trends. The estimated redemption rate is evaluated each reporting period. We do not believe that there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions used to calculate the estimated redemption rate. Adjustments to earnings resulting from revisions to management’s estimates of the redemption rates have been insignificant during fiscal 2021, 2020, and 2019. An increase or decrease in the estimated redemption rate of 5% would not have a material impact on our operating income in fiscal 2021. ​ Income taxes ​ We are subject to income taxes in the United States. Judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and income tax assets and liabilities, including evaluating uncertainties in the application of accounting principles and complex tax laws. ​ We recognize deferred income taxes for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which temporary differences are anticipated to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred taxes of a change in income tax rates is recognized in the consolidated statements of income in the period of enactment. A valuation allowance is recorded to reduce the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized unless it is more-likely-than-not that such assets will be realized in full. The estimated tax benefit of an uncertain tax position is 42 recorded in our consolidated financial statements only after determining a more-likely-than-not probability that the uncertain tax position will withstand challenge, if any, from applicable taxing authorities. ​ Judgment is required in assessing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized on our consolidated financial statements or tax returns. Variations in the actual outcome of these future tax consequences could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. ​ Recently adopted accounting pronouncements See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, “Summary of significant accounting policies – Recently adopted accounting pronouncements.”