********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The following discussion addresses significant factors, events, and uncertainties that make an investment in our securities risky and provides important information for the understanding of our “forward-looking statements,” which are discussed immediately preceding Item 7A of this Form 10-K and elsewhere. The risk factors set forth in this Item 1A should be read in conjunction with the rest of the information included in this report, including Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7, and Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8. We urge you to consider carefully the factors described below and the risks that they present for our operations as well as the risks addressed in other reports and materials that we file with the SEC and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. When the factors, events, and contingencies described below or elsewhere in this Form 10-K materialize, our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, or prospects can be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and prospects. Strategic and Operational Risks We Must Manage Fluctuating Demand for Our Services and Network Capacity – If there are significant reductions in demand for rail services with respect to one or more commodities or changes in consumer preferences that affect the businesses of our customers, we may experience increased costs associated with resizing our operations, including higher unit operating costs and costs for the storage of locomotives, rail cars, and other equipment; work-force adjustments; and other related activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. If there is significant demand for our services that exceeds the designed capacity of our network, we may experience network difficulties, including congestion and reduced velocity, that could compromise the level of service we provide to our customers. This level of demand may also compound the impact of weather and weather-related events on our operations and velocity. Although we continue to improve our transportation plan, add capacity, improve operations at our yards and other facilities, and improve our ability to address surges in demand for any reason with adequate resources, we cannot be sure that these measures will fully or adequately address any service shortcomings resulting from demand exceeding our planned capacity. We may experience other operational or service difficulties related to network capacity, dramatic and unplanned fluctuations in our customers’ demand for rail service with respect to one or more commodities or operating 11 regions, or other events that could negatively impact our operational efficiency, which could all have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. We Transport Hazardous Materials – We transport certain hazardous materials and other materials, including crude oil, ethanol, and toxic inhalation hazard (TIH) materials, such as chlorine, that pose certain risks in the event of a release or combustion. Additionally, U.S. laws impose common carrier obligations on railroads that require us to transport certain hazardous materials regardless of risk or potential exposure to loss. A rail accident or other incident or accident on our network, at our facilities, or at the facilities of our customers involving the release or combustion of hazardous materials could involve significant costs and claims for personal injury, property damage, and environmental penalties and remediation in excess of our insurance coverage for these risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. We Rely on Technology and Technology Improvements in Our Business Operations – We rely on information technology in all aspects of our business, including technology systems operated by us or under control of third parties. If we do not have sufficient capital to acquire, develop, or implement new technology or maintain or upgrade current systems, such as PTC or the latest version of our transportation control systems, we may suffer a competitive disadvantage within the rail industry and with companies providing other modes of transportation service, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. We Are Subject to Cybersecurity Risks – We rely on information technology in all aspects of our business, including technology systems operated by us or under control of third parties. Although we devote significant resources to protect our technology systems and proprietary data, we have experienced and will continue to experience varying degrees of cyber incidents in the normal course of business. While there can be no assurance that the systems we have designed to prevent or limit the effects of cyber incidents or attacks will be sufficient to prevent or detect such incidents or attacks, or to avoid a material adverse impact on our systems after such incidents or attacks do occur, we are continually evaluating attackers’ techniques and tactics, and we are diligent in our monitoring, training, planning, and prevention. However, due to the rising rates and increasing sophistication of cyber-attacks, an increasingly complex IT supply chain, and the nature of zero-day exploits, we may be unable to anticipate or implement adequate preventative measures to prevent a security breach, including by ransomware, human error, or other cyber-attack methods, from disrupting our systems or the systems of third parties. A successful cyber-attack may result in significant service interruption; safety failure; other operational difficulties; unauthorized access to (or the loss of access to) competitively sensitive, confidential, or other critical data or systems; loss of customers; financial losses; regulatory fines; and misuse or corruption of critical data and proprietary information, which could all have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. We also may experience security breaches that could remain undetected for an extended period and, therefore, have a greater impact on the services we offer. Severe Weather Could Result in Significant Business Interruptions and Expenditures – As a railroad with a vast network, we are exposed to severe weather conditions and other natural phenomena, including earthquakes, hurricanes, fires, floods, mudslides or landslides, extreme temperatures, avalanches, and significant precipitation. Line outages and other interruptions caused by these conditions can adversely affect our entire rail network, potentially negatively affecting revenue, costs, and liabilities, despite efforts we undertake to plan for these events. Our revenues can also be adversely affected by severe weather that causes damage and disruptions to our customers. These impacts caused by severe weather could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. A Significant Portion of Our Revenue Involves Transportation of Commodities to and from International Markets – Although revenues from our operations are attributable to transportation services provided in the U.S., a significant portion of our revenues involves the transportation of commodities to and from international markets, including Mexico, Canada, and Southeast Asia, by various carriers and, at times, various modes of transportation. Significant and sustained interruptions of trade with Mexico, Canada, or countries in Southeast Asia, including China, could adversely affect customers and other entities that, directly or indirectly, purchase or rely on rail transportation services in the U.S. as part of their operations, and any such interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Any one or more of the following could cause a significant and sustained interruption of trade with Mexico, Canada, or countries in Southeast Asia: (a) a deterioration of security for international trade and businesses; (b) the adverse impact of new laws, rules, and regulations or the interpretation of laws, rules, and regulations by government entities, courts, or regulatory bodies, including the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) and a “Phase One” trade agreement with China; (c) actions 12 of taxing authorities that affect our customers doing business in foreign countries; (d) any significant adverse economic developments, such as extended periods of high inflation, material disruptions in the banking sector or in the capital markets of these foreign countries, and significant changes in the valuation of the currencies of these foreign countries that could materially affect the cost or value of imports or exports; (e) shifts in patterns of international trade that adversely affect import and export markets; (f) a material reduction in foreign direct investment in these countries; and (g) public health crises, including the outbreak of pandemic or contagious disease, such as the novel coronavirus and its variant strains. We Are Dependent on Certain Key Suppliers of Locomotives and Rail – Due to the capital intensive nature and sophistication of locomotive equipment, parts, and maintenance, potential new suppliers face high barriers to entry. Therefore, if one of the domestic suppliers of high horsepower locomotives discontinues manufacturing locomotives, supplying parts or providing maintenance for any reason, including bankruptcy or insolvency, we could experience significant cost increases and reduced availability of the locomotives that are necessary for our operations. Additionally, for a high percentage of our rail purchases, we utilize two steel producers (one domestic and one international) that meet our specifications. Rail is critical to our operations for rail replacement programs, maintenance, and for adding additional network capacity, new rail and storage yards, and expansions of existing facilities. This industry similarly has high barriers to entry, and if one of these suppliers discontinues operations for any reason, including bankruptcy or insolvency, we could experience both significant cost increases for rail purchases and difficulty obtaining sufficient rail for maintenance and other projects. Changes to trade agreements or policies that result in increased tariffs on goods imported into the United States could also result in significant cost increases for rail purchases and difficulty obtaining sufficient rail. Human Capital Risks Strikes or Work Stoppages Could Adversely Affect Our Operations – The U.S. Class I railroads are party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions. The majority of our employees belong to labor unions and are subject to these agreements. Disputes with regard to the terms of these agreements or our potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions could result in, among other things, strikes, work stoppages, slowdowns, or lockouts, which could cause a significant disruption of our operations and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Additionally, future national labor agreements, or renegotiation of labor agreements or provisions of labor agreements, could compromise our service reliability or significantly increase our costs for health care, wages, and other benefits, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Labor disputes, work stoppages, slowdowns or lockouts at loading/unloading facilities, ports, or other transport access points could compromise our service reliability and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Labor disputes, work stoppages, slowdowns or lockouts by employees of our customers or our suppliers could compromise our service reliability and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. The Availability of Qualified Personnel Could Adversely Affect Our Operations – Changes in demographics, training requirements, and the availability of qualified personnel, including the effects on availability from pandemic illnesses or restrictions, could negatively affect our ability to meet demand for rail service. Unpredictable increases in demand for rail services and a lack of network fluidity may exacerbate such risks, which could have a negative impact on our operational efficiency and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Legal and Regulatory Risks We Are Subject to Significant Governmental Regulation – We are subject to governmental regulation by a significant number of federal, state, and local authorities covering a variety of health, safety, labor, environmental, economic (as discussed below), tax, and other matters. Many laws and regulations require us to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits, and other authorizations, and we cannot guarantee that we will continue to be able to do so. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on us. Governments or regulators may change the legislative or regulatory frameworks within which we operate without providing us any recourse to address any adverse effects on our business, including, without limitation, regulatory determinations or rules regarding dispute resolution, increasing the amount of our traffic subject to common carrier regulation, business relationships with other railroads, calculation of our cost of capital or other inputs relevant to computing our revenue adequacy, the prices we charge, changes in tax rates, enactment of new tax laws, and revision in tax regulations. Significant legislative activity in Congress or regulatory activity by the STB could expand regulation of 13 railroad operations and prices for rail services, which could reduce capital spending on our rail network, facilities, and equipment, and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. For example, enacted federal legislation mandated the implementation of PTC technology by December 31, 2020, which we invested approximately $2.9 billion to develop. Additionally, one or more consolidations of Class I railroads also could lead to increased regulation of the rail industry. We May Be Subject to Various Claims and Lawsuits That Could Result in Significant Expenditures – As a railroad with operations in densely populated urban areas and a vast rail network, we are exposed to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, property damage, environmental liability, and other matters. Any material changes to litigation trends or a catastrophic rail accident or series of accidents involving any or all of property damage, personal injury, and environmental liability that exceed our insurance coverage for such risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. We Are Subject to Significant Environmental Laws and Regulations – Due to the nature of the railroad business, our operations are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air; discharges to waters; handling, storage, transportation, and disposal of waste and other materials; and hazardous material or petroleum releases. We generate and transport hazardous and non-hazardous waste in our operations. Environmental liability can extend to previously owned or operated properties, leased properties, properties owned by third parties, as well as properties we currently own. Environmental liabilities have arisen and may also arise from claims asserted by adjacent landowners or other third parties in toxic tort litigation. We have been and may be subject to allegations or findings that we have violated, or are strictly liable under, these laws or regulations. We currently have certain obligations at existing sites for investigation, remediation, and monitoring, and we likely will have obligations at other sites in the future. Liabilities for these obligations affect our estimate based on our experience and, as necessary, the advice and assistance of our consultants. However, actual costs may vary from our estimates due to any or all of several factors, including changes to environmental laws or interpretations of such laws, technological changes affecting investigations and remediation, the participation and financial viability of other parties responsible for any such liability, and the corrective action or change to corrective actions required to remediate any existing or future sites. We could incur significant costs as a result of any of the foregoing, and we may be required to incur significant expenses to investigate and remediate known, unknown, or future environmental contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Macroeconomic and Industry Risks We Face Competition from Other Railroads and Other Transportation Providers – We face competition from other railroads, motor carriers, ships, barges, and pipelines. Our main railroad competitor is Burlington Northern Santa Fe LLC. Its primary subsidiary, BNSF Railway Company (BNSF), operates parallel routes in many of our main traffic corridors. In addition, we operate in corridors served by other railroads and motor carriers. Motor carrier competition exists for all three of our commodity groups (excluding most coal shipments). Because of the proximity of our routes to major inland and Gulf Coast waterways, barges can be particularly competitive, especially for grain and bulk commodities in certain areas where we operate. In addition to price competition, we face competition with respect to transit times, quality, and reliability of service from motor carriers and other railroads. Motor carriers in particular can have an advantage over railroads with respect to transit times and timeliness of service. However, railroads are much more fuel-efficient than trucks, which reduces the impact of transporting goods on the environment and public infrastructure, and we have been making efforts to convert truck traffic to rail. Additionally, we must build or acquire and maintain our rail system, while trucks, barges, and maritime operators are able to use public rights-of-way maintained by public entities. Any of the following could also affect the competitiveness of our transportation services for some or all of our commodities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity: (i) improvements or expenditures materially increasing the quality or reducing the costs of these alternative modes of transportation, such as autonomous or more fuel efficient trucks, (ii) legislation that eliminates or significantly increases the size or weight limitations applied to motor carriers, or (iii) legislation or regulatory changes that impose operating restrictions on railroads or that adversely affect the profitability of some or all railroad traffic. M any movements face product or geographic competition where our customers can use different products (e.g. natural gas instead of coal, sorghum instead of corn) or commodities from different locations (e.g. grain from states or countries that we do not serve, crude oil from different regions). Sourcing different commodities or different locations allows shippers to substitute different carriers and such competition may reduce our volume or constrain prices. Additionally, any future consolidation of the rail industry could materially affect our competitive environment. 14 We May Be Affected by Climate Change and Market or Regulatory Responses to Climate Change – Climate change, including the impact of global warming, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gasses, including diesel exhaust, could significantly increase our operating costs. Restrictions on emissions could also affect our customers that (a) use commodities that we carry to produce energy, (b) use significant amounts of energy in producing or delivering the commodities we carry, or (c) manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of energy or burn fossil fuels, including chemical producers, farmers and food producers, and automakers and other manufacturers. Significant cost increases, government regulation, or changes of consumer preferences for goods or services relating to alternative sources of energy or emissions reductions could materially affect the markets for the commodities we carry, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Government incentives encouraging the use of alternative sources of energy also could affect certain of our customers and the markets for certain of the commodities we carry in an unpredictable manner that could alter our traffic patterns, including, for example, increasing royalties charged to producers of PRB coal by the U.S. Department of Interior and the impacts of ethanol incentives on farming and ethanol producers. We could face increased costs related to defending and resolving legal claims and other litigation related to climate change and the alleged impact of our operations on climate change. Violent weather caused by climate change, including earthquakes, hurricanes, fires, floods, extreme temperatures, avalanches, and significant precipitation could cause line outages and other interruptions to our infrastructure. Any of these factors, individually or in operation with one or more of the other factors, or other unforeseen impacts of climate change could reduce the amount of traffic we handle and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Our business, financial condition , and results of operations ha ve been adversely affected and in the future could be materially adversely affected by pandemic s – Our business, financial condition , and results of operations have been adversely affected by the coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) pandemic and may be affected by other pandemics. COVID-19 has caused, and is expected to continue to cause, a global slowdown of economic activity (including the decrease in demand for a broad variety of goods), disruptions in global supply chains , and significant volatility and disruption of financial markets and that also has adversely affected workforces, customers, and regional and local economies. Other future pandemics may cause these same or similar consequences. Because the severity, magnitude , and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and its economic consequences are uncertain, rapidly changing , and difficult to predict, the impact on our business and financial condition remains uncertain and difficult to predict. The ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our results of operations and financial condition remains uncertain and depends on numerous evolving factors, which we may not be able to effectively respond to and are not entirely within our control . These factors also may be of importance for other pandemics , including, but not limited to: governmental, business , and individuals’ actions that have been and continue to be taken in response to a global pandemic (including restrictions on travel and transport, workforce pressures , and social distancing , and shelter-in-place orders); the effect of a pandemic on economic activity and actions taken in response; the effect on our customers and their demand for our services; the effect of a pandemic on the credit-worthiness of our customers; national or global supply chain challenges or disruption; facility closures; commodity cost volatility; general economic uncertainty in key global markets and financial market volatility; global economic conditions and levels of economic growth; and the pace of recovery as the pandemic subsides as well as response to a potential reoccurrence. Further, a pandemic, and the volatile regional and global economic conditions stemming from a pandemic, could also precipitate and aggravate the other risk factors that we identify, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations (including revenues and profitability) , and/or stock price. Additionally, a pandemic also may affect our operating and financial results in a manner that is not presently known to us or that we currently do not consider to present significant risks to our operations. Financial Risks We Are Affected By Fluctuating Fuel Prices – Fuel costs constitute a significant portion of our transportation expenses. Diesel fuel prices can be subject to dramatic fluctuations, and significant price increases could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Although we currently are able to recover a significant amount of our fuel expenses from our customers through revenue from fuel surcharges, we cannot be certain that we will always be able to mitigate rising or elevated fuel costs through our fuel surcharges. Additionally, future market conditions or legislative or regulatory activities could adversely affect our ability to apply fuel surcharges or adequately recover increased fuel costs through fuel surcharges. As fuel prices fluctuate, our fuel surcharge programs trail such fluctuations in fuel price by approximately two months, and may be a significant source of quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year 15 volatility, particularly in periods of rapidly changing prices. International, political, and economic factors, events and conditions affect the volatility of fuel prices and supplies. Weather can also affect fuel supplies and limit domestic refining capacity. A severe shortage of, or disruption to, domestic fuel supplies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Alternatively, lower fuel prices could have a positive impact on the economy by increasing consumer discretionary spending that potentially could increase demand for various consumer products we transport. However, lower fuel prices could have a negative impact on other commodities we transport, such as coal and domestic drilling-related shipments, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. We Rely on Capital Markets – Due to the significant capital expenditures required to operate and maintain a safe and efficient railroad, we rely on the capital markets to provide some of our capital requirements. We utilize long-term debt instruments, bank financing, and commercial paper from time-to-time, and we pledge certain of our receivables. Significant instability or disruptions of the capital markets, including the credit markets, or deterioration of our financial condition due to internal or external factors could restrict or prohibit our access to, and significantly increase the cost of, commercial paper and other financing sources, including bank credit facilities and the issuance of long-term debt, including corporate bonds. A significant deterioration of our financial condition could result in a reduction of our credit rating to below investment grade, which could restrict or, at certain credit levels below investment grade, may prohibit us from utilizing our current receivables securitization facility. This may also limit our access to external sources of capital and significantly increase the costs of short and long-term debt financing. General Risk Factors We Are Affected by General Economic Conditions – Prolonged, severe adverse domestic and global economic conditions or disruptions of financial and credit markets may affect the producers and consumers of the commodities we carry and may have a material adverse effect on our access to liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition. We May Be Affected by Acts of Terrorism, War, or Risk of War – Our rail lines, facilities, and equipment, including rail cars carrying hazardous materials, could be direct targets or indirect casualties of terrorist attacks. Terrorist attacks, or other similar events, any government response thereto, and war or risk of war may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. In addition, insurance premiums for some or all of our current coverages could increase dramatically, or certain coverages may not be available to us in the future.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and applicable notes to the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8, and other information in this report, including Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A and Critical Accounting Policies and Cautionary Information at the end of this Item 7. The following section generally discusses 2020 and 2019 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2020 and 2019. Discussions of 2018 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2019 and 2018 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7, of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019. The Railroad, along with its subsidiaries and rail affiliates, is our one reportable business segment. Although revenue is analyzed by commodity, we analyze the net financial results of the Railroad as one segment due to the integrated nature of the rail network. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 2020 Results  Coronavirus Pandemic (COVID-19) – 2020 was a year of great uncertainty as COVID-19 spread across the globe. The pandemic caused a dramatic slowdown of the economy as government intervention forced closures and changed individual behaviors, and businesses transformed their operations to protect the health and safety of their employees, customers, and communities. The varying levels of mitigation across different industries had a significant impact on the demand to ship freight in certain market segments. The most notable impact on our revenue was the temporary suspension of automotive production and the corollary effect it had on products used for auto manufacturing. Other reductions in production drove volume declines in a number of other markets as well. The pandemic also disrupted supply chains between Asia and the United States driving declines in intermodal shipments. While second quarter was the hardest hit and volumes have improved sequentially from that quarter, some market segments are still lagging as year-over-year volumes are down.  Safety – The health and wellbeing of our employees was top of mind in 2020 as we navigated the continually changing environment due to COVID-19. We have and are continuing to adapt to protect the safety of our employees, our customers, and the communities we serve. Enhanced safety procedures were implemented across the system, including new procedures and policies based on Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) guidelines. We continued our focus on safety to reduce risk and eliminate incidents for our employees, our customers, and the public. While we have implemented new practices, which drove a 17% improvement in our reportable equipment incident rate per million train miles, we have significant opportunity for improvement remaining. Our reportable personal injury incidents per 200,000 employee-hours of 0.90 was flat with last year. We continued to use Total Safety Culture, Courage to Care, and COMMIT (Coaching, Observing, Mentoring and Motivating with Integrity and Trust) throughout our operations. We remained focused on identifying and managing risks and training our employees as their work environment changes.  Network Operations – While the pandemic resulted in significant swings in volume, we were able to adjust our demand-driven resources to reflect these fluctuations with minimal disruptions to our customers. Both our Intermodal and Manifest/Automotive car trip plan compliance improved 6 points in 2020, showing our dedication to providing the customer with a service product that delivers value. Although the environment we operated in changed due to COVID-19, we continued our operational transformation. This was evident as o ur key performance indicators have improved substantially year-over-year. Transportation plan changes to eliminate switches and improved terminal processes drove an 8% improvement in freight car terminal dwell. Improved dwell coupled with 3% faster average train speed led to a 6% improvement in freight car velocity. We also saw 14% improvement in locomotive productivity and 11% improvement in work force productivity. Additional detail on these metrics are discussed in Other Operating / Performance and Financial Statistics of this Item 7.  Freight Revenues – Our freight revenues decreased 10% year-over-year to $18.3 billion driven by a volume decline of 7%, lower fuel surcharge revenue, and negative mix of traffic (for example, a relative 25 increase in intermodal shipments, which have a lower average revenue per car (ARC)), partially offset by core pricing gains. Volume declined in almost every market segment due to the deteriorating economic conditions brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic. While some markets rebounded in the last half of the year, particularly grain and intermodal, others still lagged 2019 levels. Shipments of coal, sand, and petroleum products continue to be negatively impacted by the low crude oil and natural gas prices.  Financial Results – In 2020, we generated operating income of $7.8 billion, 8% below 2019, driven by the impacts of COVID-19 and a non-cash impairment charge of $278 million related to our Brazos yard investment. Productivity initiatives, lower volumes, and lower fuel prices drove operating expenses down 11% from 2019. These factors coupled with improved pricing were not enough to offset the impact of the revenue decline. Net income of $5.3 billion translated into earnings of $7.88 per diluted share, down 6% from last year. Despite the adversity from COVID-19, our operational transformation produced an all-time record 59.9% operating ratio, improving 0.7 points from 2019.  Fuel Prices – Our average price of diesel fuel in 2020 was $1.50 per gallon, a decrease of 30% from 2019. The lower price resulted in lower operating expenses of $539 million (excluding any impact from year-over-year volume declines). Gross ton-miles decreased 9% and our fuel consumption rate, computed as gallons of fuel consumed divided by gross ton-miles, improved 2%, both driving lower fuel expense.  Liquidity – We are continually evaluating the impact of COVID-19 on our financial condition and liquidity. On December 31, 2020, we had $1.8 billion of cash and cash equivalents. Despite the pandemic, we generated $8.5 billion of cash from operating activities, yielding free cash flow of $3.2 billion after reductions of $2.7 billion for cash used in investing activities and $2.6 billion in dividends. Even though our share repurchase program was temporarily paused for six months starting in March 2020, we repurchased $3.7 billion of our shares. We have been, and we expect to continue to be, in compliance with our debt covenants. We have $2.0 billion of credit available under our revolving credit facility, up to $800 million undrawn on our Receivables Facility, and three bilateral revolving credit lines, which mature in May 2021, with up to $600 million of available credit. As of December 31, 2020, none of the revolving credit facility, Receivables Facility, or bilateral revolving credit lines was drawn. Free cash flow is defined as cash provided by operating activities less cash used in investing activities and dividends paid. Free cash flow is not considered a financial measure under GAAP by SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. We believe free cash flow is important to management and investors in evaluating our financial performance and measures our ability to generate cash without additional external financing. Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, cash provided by operating activities. The following table reconciles cash provided by operating activities (GAAP measure) to free cash flow (non-GAAP measure): 2021 Outlook  Safety – Operating a safe railroad benefits all our constituents: our employees, customers, shareholders, and the communities we serve. We will continue using a multi-faceted approach to safety utilizing technology, risk assessments, training, employee engagement, quality control, and targeted capital investments. We will continue using and expanding the deployment of Total Safety Culture, Courage to Care, COMMIT, and Peer to Peer throughout our operations, which allows us to identify and implement best practices for employee and operational safety. We formed an Operating Practices Command Center to identify causes of mainline service interruptions and develop solutions, in addition to, assisting employees with understanding policies, procedures, and best practices for handling trains. We will continue our efforts to utilize data to identify and mitigate risk, detect rail defects, improve or close crossings, and educate the public and law enforcement agencies about crossing safety through 26 a combination of our own programs (including risk assessment strategies), industry programs, and local community activities across the network.  Network Operations – In 2021, we will continue to transform our railroad to further increase reliability of our service product, reduce variability in network operations, and improve resource utilization. Continued implementation of train length initiatives will allow us to add incremental volume growth to our existing train network. We will continue to make structural changes to improve operational performance and efficiency. A more efficient network requires fewer locomotives, freight cars, and other resources.  Market Conditions – We expect uncertainties with COVID-19 and the economy to continue in 2021. How governments and consumers react to the resurgence, mutation of the virus, and distribution of the vaccine could result in or contribute to customer disruptions, an elongated recovery period, or a downturn from our current business levels. Disruptions in our customers’ supply chains caused by the pandemic or other factors may have an impact on our shipments. In addition, other factors such as natural gas prices, weather conditions, and demand for other energy sources may impact the coal market; crude oil price spreads may drive demand for petroleum products and drilling materials; available truck capacity could impact our intermodal business; and international trade agreements could promote or hinder trade.  Fuel Prices – Projections for crude oil and natural gas continue to fluctuate in the current environment. We again could see volatile fuel prices during the year, as they are sensitive to global and U.S. domestic demand, refining capacity, geopolitical events, weather conditions, and other factors. As prices fluctuate, there will be a timing impact on earnings, as our fuel surcharge programs trail increases or decreases in fuel price by approximately two months. Significant changes in fuel prices could have an impact on the amount of consumer discretionary spending, impacting demand for various consumer products we transport. Alternatively, those changes could have an inverse impact on commodities such as coal, petroleum products, and domestic drilling-related shipments.  Capital Plan – In 2021, we expect our capital plan to be approximately $2.9 billion, essentially flat with 2020. Implementation of our new transportation plan has generated capacity. We will continue to harden our infrastructure, replace older assets, and improve the safety and resilience of the network. In addition, the plan includes investments intended to support growth and improve productivity and operational efficiency. The capital plan may be revised if business conditions warrant or if new laws or regulations affect our ability to generate sufficient returns on these investments. (See further discussion in this Item 7 under Liquidity and Capital Resources – Capital Plan).  Financial Expectations – We expect volume to be up four to as high as six percent in 2021 compared to 2020, provided the second half of the year’s industrial production strengthens as predicted by economists. In the current environment, we expect continued margin improvement driven by pricing opportunities in excess of inflation and ongoing productivity initiatives, resulting in approximately $500 million of productivity savings, while better leveraging our resources and strengthening our franchise. We expect to generate strong cash from operating activities along with maintaining our dividend and share repurchase program. As the continued effect of COVID-19 is still uncertain, it could have a material impact on our 2021 financial and operating results, but our focus will be on what we can manage, such as increasing productivity; seeking new business opportunities; protecting our employees, customers, and communities; and providing excellent service to our customers. ‎ 27 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Operating Revenues We generate freight revenues by transporting freight or other materials from our three commodity groups. Prior to 2020, we reported on four commodity groups, thus prior years’ freight revenue, average revenue per car (ARC), and carloadings have been realigned to the new reporting format. Freight revenues vary with volume (carloads) and ARC. Changes in price, traffic mix, and fuel surcharges drive ARC. Customer incentives, which are primarily provided for shipping to/from specific locations or based on cumulative volumes, are recorded as a reduction to operating revenues. Customer incentives that include variable consideration based on cumulative volumes are estimated using the expected value method, which is based on available historical, current, and forecasted volumes, and recognized as the related performance obligation is satisfied. We recognize freight revenues over time as shipments move from origin to destination. The allocation of revenue between reporting periods is based on the relative transit time in each reporting period with expenses recognized as incurred. Other revenues consist primarily of revenues earned by our other subsidiaries (primarily logistics and commuter rail operations) and accessorial revenues. Other subsidiary revenues are generally recognized over time as shipments move from origin to destination. The allocation of revenue between reporting periods is based on the relative transit time in each reporting period with expenses recognized as incurred. Accessorial revenues are recognized at a point in time as performance obligations are satisfied. Freight revenues decreased 10% year-over-year to $18.3 billion driven by a 7% volume decline, lower fuel surcharge, and negative mix of traffic, partially offset by core pricing gains. Volume declined in almost every market segment due to the deteriorating economic conditions brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic. While some markets rebounded in the fourth quarter, particularly grain and intermodal, others still lagged 2019 levels. Shipments of coal, sand, and petroleum products continue to be negatively impacted by low crude oil and natural gas prices. Our fuel surcharge programs generated freight revenues of almost $1.0 billion and $1.6 billion in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Fuel surcharge revenue in 2020 decreased $586 million as a result of a 30% decrease in fuel price and a 7% reduction in carloadings, partially offset by the lag impact on fuel surcharge (it can generally take up to two months for changing fuel prices to affect fuel surcharges recoveries). In 2020, other subsidiary revenues decreased from 2019 driven by the disruption of the automotive supply chain, which drove lower intermodal shipments and revenue at our subsidiaries that broker intermodal and transload logistics services. Accessorial revenue and other revenue declined driven by lower industrial products traffic. 28 The following tables summarize the year-over-year changes in freight revenues, revenue carloads, and ARC by commodity type: [a] For intermodal shipments, each container or trailer equals one carload. 29 Mexico Business – Each of our commodity groups includes revenue from shipments to and from Mexico. Revenue from Mexico business was $2.1 billion in 2020, down 10% compared to 2019, driven by a 12% decline in volume and lower fuel surcharge revenue, partially offset by core pricing gains. The volume decline was driven by the COVID-19 pandemic with declines in automotive and intermodal shipments, partially offset by increases in LPG , beer, and grain. 30 Operating Expenses Compensation and Benefits – Compensation and benefits include wages, payroll taxes, health and welfare costs, pension costs, other postretirement benefits, and incentive costs. In 2020, expenses decreased 12% compared to 2019, due to productivity initiatives; declines in carload volumes; lower weather-related costs; management’s actions responding to the sharp decline in volume, including three months of temporary unpaid leave and salary reductions, and almost 6 months of large shop closures (a locomotive shop, a freight car shop, and a maintenance-of-way shop); partially offset by wage inflation, an employment tax refund recognized in 2019, and a one-time bonus payment for agreement employees who worked during the pandemic. Severance costs were relatively flat year-over-year. Depreciation – The majority of depreciation relates to road property, including rail, ties, ballast, and other track material. Depreciation expense was essentially flat in 2020 compared to 2019. Purchased Services and Materials – Expense for purchased services and materials includes the costs of services purchased from outside contractors and other service providers (including equipment maintenance and contract expenses incurred by our subsidiaries for external transportation services); materials used to maintain the Railroad’s lines, structures, and equipment; costs of operating facilities jointly used by UPRR and other railroads; transportation and lodging for train crew employees; trucking and contracting costs for intermodal containers; leased automobile maintenance expenses; and tools and supplies. Purchased services and materials decreased 13% in 2020 compared to 2019 driven by reductions in all of the following: locomotive maintenance expenses due to a smaller active fleet, volume-related costs for intermodal and transload services incurred by our subsidiaries, costs for transportation for the train crews, professional services expense, costs associated with derailments, and year-over-year weather-related costs. Fuel – Fuel includes locomotive fuel and gasoline for highway and non-highway vehicles and heavy equipment. Locomotive diesel fuel prices, which averaged $1.50 per gallon (including taxes and transportation costs) in 2020, compared to $2.13 per gallon in 2019, decreased expenses $539 million (excluding any impact from year-over-year volume declines). Gross ton-miles decreased 9% and our fuel consumption rate, computed as gallons of fuel consumed divided by gross ton-miles, improved 2%, which both drove lower fuel expense. 31 Equipment and Other Rents – Equipment and other rents expense primarily includes rental expense that the Railroad pays for freight cars owned by other railroads or private companies; freight car, intermodal, and locomotive leases; and office and other rent expenses, offset by e quity income from certain equity method investments. Equipment and other rents expense decreased 11% compared to 2019 driven by improved freight car velocity, volume declines, and lease returns, partially offset by lower equity income. Other – Other expenses include state and local taxes, freight, equipment and property damage, utilities, insurance, personal injury, environmental, employee travel, telephone and cellular, computer software, bad debt, and other general expenses. Other expenses increased 27% in 2020 compared to 2019 as a result of a $278 million non-cash impairment charge related to our Brazos yard investment. Increased bad debt expense, state and local taxes, lower equity income from our investment in Grupo Ferroviaro Mexicano, and write offs of certain in-progress capital projects and lease impairments, were almost completely offset by lower costs associated with freight loss and damage, employee travel, and destroyed equipment. Non-Operating Items Other Income – Other income increased in 2020 compared to 2019 due to larger gains from real estate sales, including a $69 million gain from a land and permanent easement sale to the Illinois State Toll Highway Authority, partially offset by $31 million in interest income associated with an employment tax refund in 2019 and lower interest income. Interest Expense – Interest expense increased in 2020 compared to 2019 due to an increased weighted-average debt level of $27.9 billion in 2020 from $24.8 billion in 2019, partially offset by the impact of a lower effective interest rate of 4.1% in 2020 compared to 4.3 % in 2019. Income Taxes – Income tax expense decreased in 2020 compared to 2019 due to lower pre-tax income. Our effective tax rates for 2020 and 2019 were 23.4% and 23.6%, respectively. ‎ 32 OTHER OPERATING/PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL STATISTICS We report a number of key performance measures weekly to the STB. We provide this data on our website at www.up.com/investor/aar-stb_reports/index.htm. Operating/Performance Statistics Management continuously measures these key operating metrics to evaluate our productivity, asset utilization, and network efficiency in striving to provide a consistent, reliable service product to our customers. Railroad performance measures are included in the table below: [a]    Prior years have been recast to conform to the current year presentation which reflects minor refinements. [b]    As reported to the STB. Gross and Revenue Ton-Miles – Gross ton-miles are calculated by multiplying the weight of loaded and empty freight cars by the number of miles hauled. Revenue ton-miles are calculated by multiplying the weight of freight by the number of tariff miles. Gross ton-miles and revenue ton-miles both decreased 9% in 2020 compared to 2019, driven by a 7% decline in carloadings. Changes in commodity mix drove the variance in year-over-year decreases between gross ton-miles, revenue ton-miles, and carloads. Freight Car Velocity – Freight car velocity measures the average daily miles per car on our network. The two key drivers of this metric are the speed of the train between terminals (average train speed) and the time a rail car spends at the terminals (average terminal dwell time). Continued implementation of our new operating plan was the primary driver of the improvement from 2019 as both average terminal dwell and average train speed improved compared to 2020. Average terminal dwell time decreased compared to 2019 largely due to improved terminal processes, transportation plan changes to eliminate switches, and reduced carload volumes due to COVID-19. Average train speed in 2020 improved as weather-related challenges slowed trains in the first half of 2019. Train speed remained relatively flat year-over-year in the second half of the year. Locomotive Productivity – Locomotive productivity is gross ton-miles per average daily locomotive horsepower. Locomotive productivity increased 14% in 2020 compared to 2019 driven by a 24% reduction in our average active fleet size due to transportation plan changes and lower locomotive dwell times. Train Length – Train length is the average maximum train length on a route measured in feet. Our train length increased 14% compared to 2019 as a result of blending service products, transportation plan changes, and completing 36 siding extension projects. Car Trip Plan Compliance – Car trip plan compliance is the percentage of cars delivered on time in accordance with our original trip plan. Our network trip plan compliance is broken into the intermodal and manifest products. Intermodal trip plan compliance improved versus 2019, due to improved train speed and reduced dwell at our origin and destination ramps. Manifest car trip plan compliance improved compared to 2019 due to improved car dwell in our yards, increased train velocity across the network, and more 33 reliable first and last mile service. Both metrics were aided by reduced carload volumes due to COVID-19 and milder weather. Workforce Productivity – Workforce productivity is average daily car miles per employee. Workforce productivity improved 11%, reaching an all-time record as average daily car miles decreased 9% while employees decreased 17% compared to 2019. Lower volumes drove the decline in average daily car miles. The 17% decline in employee levels was driven by productivity initiatives, a 7% decline in carload volumes, and a smaller capital workforce. At the end of the year, approximately 4,100 employees across all crafts were furloughed. Operating Ratio – Operating ratio is our operating expenses reflected as a percentage of operating revenue. Our operating ratio of 59.9% was an all-time record and improved 0.7 points compared to 2019 mainly driven by productivity initiatives, lower fuel prices, and core pricing gains; which were partially offset by a negative mix of traffic, a one-time impairment charge, inflation, and other cost increases. Return on Average Common Shareholders’ Equity Return on Invested Capital as Adjusted (ROIC) ROIC is considered a non-GAAP financial measure by SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. We believe this measure is important to management and investors in evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of our long-term capital investments. In addition, we currently use ROIC as a performance criteria in determining certain elements of equity compensation for our executives. ROIC should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, other information provided in accordance with GAAP. The most comparable GAAP measure is Return on Average Common Shareholders’ Equity. The tables above provide reconciliations from return on average common shareholders’ equity to ROIC. At December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, the incremental borrowing rate on operating leases was 3.7%. 34 Adjusted Debt / Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted debt to adjusted EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, and adjustments for other income and interest on present value of operating leases) is considered a non-GAAP financial measure by SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. We believe this measure is important to management and investors in evaluating the Company’s ability to sustain given debt levels (including leases) with the cash generated from operations. In addition, a comparable measure is used by rating agencies when reviewing the Company’s credit rating. Adjusted debt to adjusted EBITDA should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, net income. The table above provides reconciliations from net income to adjusted debt to adjusted EBITDA. At December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, the incremental borrowing rate on operating leases was 3.7%. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES We are continually evaluating the impact of COVID-19 on our financial condition and liquidity. Although the situation is fluid and highly uncertain, we continue to analyze a wide range of economic scenarios and the impact on our ability to generate cash. These analyses inform our liquidity plans and activity outlined below and indicate we have sufficient capacity to sustain an extended period of lower volumes. At December 31, 2020, we had a working capital surplus due to an increased cash balance held due to the uncertainty related to COVID-19 compared to December 31, 2019, where we had a working capital deficit due to upcoming debt maturities. As past years indicate, it is not unusual for us to have a working capital deficit; however, we believe it is not an indication of a lack of liquidity. We also maintain adequate resources, including our credit facility and, when necessary, access the capital markets to meet any foreseeable cash requirements. We generated $8.5 billion of cash from operating activities in 2020. Based on the strength of our cash position, we completed a $1.0 billion debt exchange; redeemed the $500 million principal outstanding of 4.0% notes due February 1, 2021, on November 1, 2020; repaid the $300 million outstanding bilateral revolving credit lines that we assumed earlier in the year; repaid the $400 million outstanding on the Receivables Facility; and reduced our commercial paper outstanding from $200 million to $75 million. We have been, and we expect to continue to be, in compliance with our debt covenants. Our bad debt provision was adjusted to reflect deteriorations of customers’ creditworthiness. We maintained the dividend during 2020 paying out $2.6 billion and repurchased shares totaling $3.7 billion. In the third quarter, we completed our $2 billion accelerated share repurchase program entered into on February 18, 2020, and resumed share repurchases in the fourth quarter after suspending share repurchases in March 2020. Our principal sources of liquidity include cash, cash equivalents, our receivables securitization facility, our revolving credit facility, as well as the availability of commercial paper and other sources of financing 35 through the capital markets. On December 31, 2020, we had $1.8 billion of cash and cash equivalents, $2.0 billion of committed credit available under our credit facility, up to $800 million undrawn on the Receivables Facility, and three bilateral revolving credit lines, which mature in May 2021, with up to $600 million of available credit. As of December 31, 2020, none of the revolving credit facility, Receivables Facility, or bilateral revolving credit lines was drawn. We did not draw on our revolving credit facility at any time during 2020. Our access to the receivables securitization facility may be reduced or restricted if our bond ratings fall to certain levels below investment grade. If our bond rating were to deteriorate, it could have an adverse impact on our liquidity. Access to commercial paper as well as other capital market financing is dependent on market conditions. Deterioration of our operating results or financial condition due to internal or external factors could negatively impact our ability to access capital markets as a source of liquidity. Access to liquidity through the capital markets is also dependent on our financial stability. We expect that we will continue to have access to liquidity through any or all of the following sources or activities: (i) increasing the utilization of our receivables securitization, (ii) issuing commercial paper, (iii) entering into bank loans, outside of our revolving credit facility, or (iv) issuing bonds or other debt securities to public or private investors based on our assessment of the current condition of the credit markets. The Company’s $2.0 billion revolving credit facility is intended to support the issuance of commercial paper by UPC and also serves as an additional source of liquidity to fund short term needs. The Company currently does not intend to make any borrowings under this facility. LIBOR Transition – Each of our $2.0 billion revolving credit facility, three bilateral revolving credit lines, two term loans, and Receivables Securitization Facility currently use LIBOR as the benchmark for its floating interest rates. Authorities that regulate LIBOR have announced plans to phase out LIBOR so that it will, at some point, cease to exist as a benchmark for floating interest rates. To address the phase out of LIBOR, the agreements for substantially all of these facilities include a mechanism to replace LIBOR with an alternative rate or benchmark under specified circumstances through an amendment to the agreements. As part of this process, we will need to renegotiate our agreements to reference that alternative rate or benchmark, and may need to modify our existing benchmark replacement language, or obtain replacement facilities, and the use of an alternative rate or benchmark may negatively impact the terms of our facilities, including in the form of an adverse effect on interest rates and higher borrowing costs and interest expense. Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities decreased in 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to lower net income, partially offset by a deferral of employment tax payments allowed by a provision in the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act). Cash Flow Conversion – Cash flow conversion is defined as cash provided by operating activities less cash used in capital investments as a ratio of net income. Cash flow conversion rate is not considered a financial measure under GAAP by SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. We believe cash flow conversion rate is important to management and investors in evaluating our financial performance and measures our ability to generate cash without additional external financing. Cash flow conversion rate should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, cash provided by operating activities. 36 The following table reconciles cash provided by operating activities (GAAP measure) to cash flow conversion rate (non-GAAP measure): Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities in 2020 decreased compared to 2019 primarily driven by reduced capital investment in locomotives and freight cars and increased real estate sales. The following tables detail cash capital investments and track statistics for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018: [a] Other includes bridges and tunnels, signals, other road assets, and road work equipment. [b] Locomotives and freight cars include early lease buyouts of $38 million in 2020, $290 million in 2019, and $290 million in 2018. Capital Plan – In 2021, we expect our capital plan to be approximately $2.9 billion, essentially flat with 2020. While implementation of our new transportation plan has generated capacity, we will continue to harden our infrastructure, replace older assets, and improve the safety and resiliency of the network. In addition, the plan includes investments intended to support growth and improve productivity and operational efficiency. The capital plan may be revised if business conditions warrant or if new laws or regulations affect our ability to generate sufficient returns on these investments. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities decreased in 2020 compared to 2019 driven by lower share repurchases, which were paused in March of 2020 due to the uncertainty of COVID-19 and resumed in the fourth quarter of 2020, with the exception of the final settlement in July 2020 of our $2 billion accelerated share repurchase program entered into on February 18, 2020. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in debt repaid. See Note 14 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of all our outstanding financing arrangements and significant new borrowings. 37 Share Repurchase Programs Effective April 1, 2019, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 150 million shares of our common stock by March 31, 2022, replacing our previous repurchase program. These repurchases may be made on the open market or through other transactions. Our management has sole discretion with respect to determining the timing and amount of these transactions. As of December 31, 2020, we repurchased a total of $40.9 billion of our common stock since commencement of our repurchase programs in 2007. The table below represents shares repurchased under repurchase programs during 2020 and 2019: [a] In the period of the final settlement, the average price paid under the accelerated share repurchase programs is calculated based on the total program value less the value assigned to the initial delivery of shares. The average price of the completed 2020 and 2019 accelerated share repurchase programs was $155.86 and $167.01, respectively. [b] Includes 8,786,380 and 11,795,930 shares repurchased in February 2020 and 2019, respectively, under accelerated share repurchase programs. [c] Includes an incremental 4,045,575 and 3,172,900 shares received upon final settlement in July 2020 and August 2019, respectively, under accelerated share repurchase programs. Management's assessments of market conditions and other pertinent factors guide the timing and volume of all repurchases. We expect to fund any share repurchases under this program through cash generated from operations, the sale or lease of various operating and non-operating properties, debt issuances, and cash on hand. Open market repurchases are recorded in treasury stock at cost, which includes any applicable commissions and fees. From January 1, 2021, through February 4, 2021, we repurchased 2.1 million shares at an aggregate cost of approximately $442 million. Accelerated Share Repurchase Programs – The Company has established accelerated share repurchase programs (ASRs) with financial institutions to repurchase shares of our common stock. These ASRs have been structured so that at the time of commencement, we pay a specified amount to the financial institutions and receive an initial delivery of shares. Additional shares may be received at the time of settlement. The final number of shares to be received is based on the volume weighted average price of the Company’s common stock during the ASR term, less a discount and subject to potential adjustments pursuant to the terms of such ASR. On February 19, 2020, the Company received 8,786,380 shares of its common stock repurchased under ASRs for an aggregate of $2.0 billion. Upon settlement of these ASRs in the third quarter of 2020, we received 4,045,575 additional shares. On February 26, 2019, the Company received 11,795,930 shares of its common stock repurchased under ASRs for an aggregate of $2.5 billion. Upon settlement of these ASRs in the third quarter of 2019, we received 3,172,900 additional shares. ASRs are accounted for as equity transactions, and at the time of receipt, shares are included in treasury stock at fair market value as of the corresponding initiation or settlement date. The Company reflects shares received as a repurchase of common stock in the weighted average common shares outstanding calculation for basic and diluted earnings per share. 38 Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments As described in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and as referenced in the tables below, we have contractual obligations and commercial commitments that may affect our financial condition. Based on our assessment of the underlying provisions and circumstances of our contractual obligations and commercial commitments, including material sources of off-balance sheet and structured finance arrangements, other than the risks that we and other similarly situated companies face with respect to the condition of the capital markets (as described in Item 1A of Part II of this report),  there is no known trend, demand, commitment, event, or uncertainty that is reasonably likely to occur that would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. In addition, our commercial obligations, financings, and commitments are customary transactions that are similar to those of other comparable corporations, particularly within the transportation industry. The following tables identify material obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2020: [a] Excludes finance lease obligations of $449 million as well as unamortized discount and deferred issuance costs of ($1,538) million. Includes an interest component of $20,707 million. [b] Purchase obligations include locomotive maintenance contracts; purchase commitments for fuel purchases, ties, ballast, and rail; and agreements to purchase other goods and services. [c] Includes leases for locomotives, freight cars, other equipment, and real estate. [d] Represents total obligations, including interest component of $68 million. [e] Includes estimated other post retirement, medical, and life insurance payments, and payments made under the unfunded pension plan for the next ten years. [f] Future cash flows for income tax contingencies reflect the recorded liabilities and assets for unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalties, as of December 31, 2020. For amounts where the year of settlement is uncertain, they are reflected in the Other column. [a] None of the credit facility was used as of December 31, 2020. [b] None of the receivables securitization facility was utilized as of December 31, 2020. The full program matures in July 2022. [c] None of the bilateral revolving credit lines were utilized as of December 31, 2020. The programs mature in May 2021. [d] None of the letters of credit were drawn upon as of December 31, 2020. [e] Includes guaranteed obligations related to our affiliated operations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Guarantees – At December 31, 2020 and 2019, we were contingently liable for $10 million and $15 million, respectively, in guarantees. The fair value of these obligations as of both December 31, 2020 and 2019, was $0. We entered into these contingent guarantees in the normal course of business, and they include guaranteed obligations related to our affiliated operations. The final guarantee expires in 2022. We are not aware of any existing event of default that would require us to satisfy these guarantees. We do not expect 39 that these guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. OTHER MATTERS Labor Agreements – Approximately 83% of our full-time employees are represented by 13 major rail unions. Pursuant to the Railway Labor Act (RLA), our collective bargaining agreements are subject to modification every five years. Existing agreements remain in effect until new agreements are ratified or until the RLA procedures are exhausted. The RLA procedures include mediation, potential arbitration, cooling-off periods, and the possibility of Presidential Emergency Boards and Congressional intervention. The current round of negotiations began on January 1, 2020, related to years 2020-2024. Contract negotiations historically continue for an extended period of time, and work stoppages during negotiations are rare (see “ Strikes or Work Stoppages Could Adversely Affect Our Operations ” in the Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report). Inflation – Long periods of inflation significantly increase asset replacement costs for capital-intensive companies. As a result, assuming that we replace all operating assets at current price levels, depreciation charges (on an inflation-adjusted basis) would be substantially greater than historically reported amounts. Sensitivity Analyses – The sensitivity analyses that follow illustrate the economic effect that hypothetical changes in interest rates could have on our results of operations and financial condition. These hypothetical changes do not consider other factors that could impact actual results. At December 31, 2020, we had variable-rate debt representing approximately 1.2% of our total debt. If variable interest rates average one percentage point higher in 2021 than our December 31, 2020, variable rate, which was approximately 1.3%, our interest expense would increase by approximately $3.3 million. This amount was determined by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rate on the balances of our variable-rate debt at December 31, 2020. Market risk for fixed-rate debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical one percentage point decrease in interest rates as of December 31, 2020, and amounts to an increase of approximately $4.7 billion to the fair value of our debt at December 31, 2020. We estimated the fair values of our fixed-rate debt by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on quoted market prices and current borrowing rates. Accounting Pronouncements – See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Asserted and Unasserted Claims – Various claims and lawsuits are pending against us and certain of our subsidiaries. We cannot fully determine the effect of all asserted and unasserted claims on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. To the extent possible, we have recorded a liability where asserted and unasserted claims are considered probable and where such claims can be reasonably estimated. We do not expect that any known lawsuits, claims, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, or guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity after taking into account liabilities and insurance recoveries previously recorded for these matters. Indemnities – Our maximum potential exposure under indemnification arrangements, including certain tax indemnifications, can range from a specified dollar amount to an unlimited amount, depending on the nature of the transactions and the agreements. Due to uncertainty as to whether claims will be made or how they will be resolved, we cannot reasonably determine the probability of an adverse claim or reasonably estimate any adverse liability or the total maximum exposure under these indemnification arrangements. We do not have any reason to believe that we will be required to make any material payments under these indemnity provisions. Climate Change – Although climate change could have an adverse impact on our operations and financial performance in the future (see Risk Factors under Item 1A of this report), we are currently unable to predict the manner or severity of such impact. However, we continue to take steps and explore opportunities to reduce the impact of our operations on the environment, including investments in new technologies, using training programs and technology to reduce fuel consumption, and changing our operations to increase fuel efficiency. 40 CR ITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires estimation and judgment that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets, and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The following critical accounting policies are a subset of our significant accounting policies described in Note 2 to the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8. These critical accounting policies affect significant areas of our financial statements and involve judgment and estimates. If these estimates differ significantly from actual results, the impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements may be material. Personal Injury – The cost of personal injuries to employees and others related to our activities is charged to expense based on estimates of the ultimate cost and number of incidents each year. We use an actuarial analysis to measure the expense and liability, including unasserted claims. The Federal Employers’ Liability Act (FELA) governs compensation for work-related accidents. Under FELA, damages are assessed based on a finding of fault through litigation or out-of-court settlements. We offer a comprehensive variety of services and rehabilitation programs for employees who are injured at work. Our personal injury liability is not discounted to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments. Approximately 94% of the recorded liability is related to asserted claims and approximately 6% is related to unasserted claims at December 31, 2020. Because of the uncertainty surrounding the ultimate outcome of personal injury claims, it is reasonably possible that future costs to settle these claims may range from approximately $270 million to $295 million. We record an accrual at the low end of the range as no amount of loss within the range is more probable than any other. Estimates can vary over time due to evolving trends in litigation. Our personal injury liability activity was as follows: Our personal injury claims activity was as follows: We reassess our estimated insurance recoveries annually and have recognized an asset for estimated insurance recoveries at December 31, 2020 and 2019. Any changes to recorded insurance recoveries are included in the above table in the Changes in estimates for prior years category. Environmental Costs – We are subject to federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations. We have identified 373 sites where we are or may be liable for remediation costs associated with alleged contamination or for violations of environmental requirements. This includes 29 sites that are the subject of actions taken by the U.S. government, 18 of which are currently on the Superfund National Priorities List. Certain federal legislation imposes joint and several liability for the remediation of identified sites; consequently, our ultimate environmental liability may include costs relating to activities of other parties, in addition to costs relating to our own activities at each site. 41 When we identify an environmental issue with respect to property owned, leased, or otherwise used in our business, we perform, with assistance of our consultants, environmental assessments on the property. We expense the cost of the assessments as incurred. We accrue the cost of remediation where our obligation is probable and such costs can be reasonably estimated. Our environmental liability is not discounted to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments. Our environmental liability activity was as follows: Our environmental site activity was as follows: The environmental liability includes future costs for remediation and restoration of sites as well as ongoing monitoring costs, but excludes any anticipated recoveries from third parties. Cost estimates are based on information available for each site, financial viability of other potentially responsible parties, and existing technology, laws, and regulations. The ultimate liability for remediation is difficult to determine because of the number of potentially responsible parties, site-specific cost sharing arrangements with other potentially responsible parties, the degree of contamination by various wastes, the scarcity and quality of volumetric data related to many of the sites, and the speculative nature of remediation costs. Estimates of liability may vary over time due to changes in federal, state, and local laws governing environmental remediation. Current obligations are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. Property and Depreciation – Our railroad operations are highly capital intensive, and our large base of homogeneous, network-type assets turns over on a continuous basis. Each year we develop a capital program for the replacement of assets and for the acquisition or construction of assets that enables us to enhance our operations or provide new service offerings to customers. Assets purchased or constructed throughout the year are capitalized if they meet applicable minimum units of property criteria. Properties and equipment are carried at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated service lives, which are measured in years, except for rail in high-density traffic corridors (i.e., all rail lines except for those subject to abandonment, and yard and switching tracks) for which lives are measured in millions of gross tons per mile of track. We use the group method of depreciation in which all items with similar characteristics, use, and expected lives are grouped together in asset classes and are depreciated using composite depreciation rates. The group method of depreciation treats each asset class as a pool of resources, not as singular items. We currently have more than 60 depreciable asset classes, and we may increase or decrease the number of asset classes due to changes in technology, asset strategies, or other factors. We determine the estimated service lives of depreciable railroad property by means of depreciation studies. We perform depreciation studies at least every three years for equipment and every six years for track assets (i.e., rail and other track material, ties, and ballast) and other road property. Our depreciation studies take into account the following factors:  Statistical analysis of historical patterns of use and retirements of each of our asset classes;  Evaluation of any expected changes in current operations and the outlook for continued use of the assets;  Evaluation of technological advances and changes to maintenance practices; and  Expected salvage to be received upon retirement. 42 For rail in high-density traffic corridors, we measure estimated service lives in millions of gross tons per mile of track. It has been our experience that the lives of rail in high-density traffic corridors are closely correlated to usage (i.e., the amount of weight carried over the rail). The service lives also vary based on rail weight, rail condition (e.g., new or secondhand), and rail type (e.g., straight or curve). Our depreciation studies for rail in high-density traffic corridors consider each of these factors in determining the estimated service lives. For rail in high-density traffic corridors, we calculate depreciation rates annually by dividing the number of gross ton-miles carried over the rail (i.e., the weight of loaded and empty freight cars, locomotives, and maintenance of way equipment transported over the rail) by the estimated service lives of the rail measured in millions of gross tons per mile. Rail in high-density traffic corridors accounts for approximately 70 percent of the historical cost of rail and other track material. Based on the number of gross ton-miles carried over our rail in high density traffic corridors during 2020, the estimated service lives of the majority of this rail ranged from approximately 24 years to approximately 48 years. For all other depreciable assets, we compute depreciation based on the estimated service lives of our assets as determined from the analysis of our depreciation studies. Changes in the estimated service lives of our assets and their related depreciation rates are implemented prospectively. Estimated service lives of depreciable railroad property may vary over time due to changes in physical use, technology, asset strategies, and other factors that will have an impact on the retirement profiles of our assets. We are not aware of any specific factors that are reasonably likely to significantly change the estimated service lives of our assets. Actual use and retirement of our assets may vary from our current estimates, which would impact the amount of depreciation expense recognized in future periods. Changes in estimated useful lives of our assets due to the results of our depreciation studies could significantly impact future periods’ depreciation expense and have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. If the estimated useful lives of all depreciable assets were increased by one year, annual depreciation expense would decrease by approximately $68 million. If the estimated useful lives of all depreciable assets were decreased by one year, annual depreciation expense would increase by approximately $72 million. Our 2020 depreciation studies have resulted in lower depreciation rates for some asset classes. T hese lower rates offset the impact of a projected higher depreciable asset base, resulting in a flat year-over-year total depreciation expense in 2021 versus 2020 . Under group depreciation, the historical cost (net of salvage) of depreciable property that is retired or replaced in the ordinary course of business is charged to accumulated depreciation and no gain or loss is recognized. The historical cost of certain track assets is estimated by multiplying the current replacement cost of track assets by a historical index factor derived from (i) inflation indices published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics and (ii) the estimated useful lives of the assets as determined by our depreciation studies. The indices were selected because they closely correlate with the major costs of the properties comprising the applicable track asset classes. Because of the number of estimates inherent in the depreciation and retirement processes and because it is impossible to precisely estimate each of these variables until a group of property is completely retired, we continually monitor the estimated service lives of our assets and the accumulated depreciation associated with each asset class to ensure our depreciation rates are appropriate. In addition, we determine if the recorded amount of accumulated depreciation is deficient (or in excess) of the amount indicated by our depreciation studies. Any deficiency (or excess) is amortized as a component of depreciation expense over the remaining service lives of the applicable classes of assets. For retirements of depreciable railroad properties that do not occur in the normal course of business, a gain or loss may be recognized if the retirement meets each of the following three conditions: (i) it is unusual, (ii) it is material in amount, and (iii) it varies significantly from the retirement profile identified through our depreciation studies. During the last three fiscal years, no gains or losses were recognized due to the retirement of depreciable railroad properties. A gain or loss is recognized in other income when we sell land or dispose of assets that are not part of our railroad operations. We review construction in progress assets that have not yet been placed into service, for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset or assets may not be recoverable. If impairment indicators are present and the estimated future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of construction in progress assets when grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent, the carrying value is reduced to the estimated fair value. Income Taxes – We account for income taxes by recording taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have 43 been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. These expected future tax consequences are measured based on current tax law; the effects of future tax legislation are not anticipated. Future tax legislation, such as a change in the corporate tax rate, could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. For example, a permanent 1% increase in future income tax rates would increase our deferred tax liability by approximately $521 million. Similarly, a permanent 1% decrease in future income tax rates would decrease our deferred tax liability by approximately $521 million. When appropriate, we record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets to reflect that these tax assets may not be realized. In determining whether a valuation allowance is appropriate, we consider whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, based on management’s judgments using available evidence for purposes of estimating whether future taxable income will be sufficient to realize a deferred tax asset. In 2020 and 2019, there were no valuation allowances. We recognize tax benefits that are more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon settlement. A liability for “unrecognized tax benefits” is recorded for any tax benefits claimed in our tax returns that do not meet these recognition and measurement standards. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits – We use an actuarial analysis to measure the liabilities and expenses associated with providing pension and medical and life insurance benefits (OPEB) to eligible employees. In order to use actuarial methods to value the liabilities and expenses, we must make several assumptions. The critical assumptions used to measure pension obligations and expenses are the discount rates and expected rate of return on pension assets. For OPEB, the critical assumptions are the discount rates and health care cost trend rate. We evaluate our critical assumptions at least annually, and selected assumptions are based on the following factors:  We measure the service cost and interest cost components of our net periodic benefit cost by using individual spot rates matched with separate cash flows for each future year. Discount rates are based on a Mercer yield curve of high quality corporate bonds (rated AA by a recognized rating agency).  Expected return on plan assets is based on our asset allocation mix and our historical return, taking into consideration current and expected market conditions.  Health care cost trend rate is based on our historical rates of inflation and expected market conditions. The following tables present the key assumptions used to measure net periodic pension and OPEB cost/(benefit) for 2021 and the estimated impact on 2021 net periodic pension and OPEB cost/(benefit) relative to a change in those assumptions: 44 The following table presents the net periodic pension and OPEB cost for the years ended December 31: CA UTIONARY INFORMATION Certain statements in this report, and statements in other reports or information filed or to be filed with the SEC (as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us), are, or will be, forward-looking statements as defined by the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements and information include, without limitation, statements in the Chairman’s letter preceding Part I; statements regarding planned capital expenditures under the caption “2021 Capital Plan” in Item 2 of Part I; and statements and information set forth under the captions “2021 Outlook”; “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7 of Part II regarding our capital plan, “Share Repurchase Programs”, “Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements, Contractual Obligations, and Commercial Commitments”, “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits”, and “Other Matters” in this Item 7 of Part II. Forward-looking statements and information also include any other statements or information in this report (including information incorporated herein by reference) regarding: potential impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business operations, financial results, liquidity, and financial position, and on the world economy (including our customers and supply chains), including as a result of decreased volume and carloadings; closing of customer manufacturing, distribution, or production facilities; expectations as to operational or service improvements; expectations regarding the effectiveness of steps taken or to be taken to improve operations, service, infrastructure improvements, and transportation plan modifications; expectations as to cost savings, revenue growth, and earnings; the time by which goals, targets, or objectives will be achieved; projections, predictions, expectations, estimates, or forecasts as to our business, financial, and operational results, future economic performance, and general economic conditions; expectations as to operational or service performance or improvements; expectations as to the effectiveness of steps taken or to be taken to improve operations and/or service, including capital expenditures for infrastructure improvements and equipment acquisitions, any strategic business acquisitions, and modifications to our transportation plans, including leveraging PTC; expectations as to existing or proposed new products and services; expectations as to the impact of any new regulatory activities or legislation on our operations or financial results; estimates of costs relating to environmental remediation and restoration; estimates and expectations regarding tax matters; expectations that claims, litigation, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, labor negotiations or agreements, or other matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity and any other similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology, such as “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “should,” “would,” “will,” “intends,” “plans,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” “projects” and similar words, phrases, or expressions. Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results, and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the times that, or by which, such performance or results will be achieved. Forward-looking statements and information are subject to risks and uncertainties, including the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and responses by governments, businesses, and individuals, that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements and information. Forward-looking statements and information reflect the good faith consideration by management of currently available information, and may be based on underlying assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, such information and assumptions (and, therefore, such forward-looking statements and information) are or may be subject to variables or unknown or unforeseeable events or circumstances over which management has little or no influence or control, and many of these risks and uncertainties are currently amplified by and may continue to be amplified by, or in the future may be amplified by, the COVID-19 pandemic. The Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report could affect our future results and could cause those results or other outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements or information. To the extent circumstances require or we deem it otherwise necessary, we will update or amend these risk factors in a Form 10-Q, Form 8-K, or subsequent Form 10-K. All forward-looking statements are qualified by, and should be read in conjunction with, these Risk Factors. 45 Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statement was made. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking information to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions, or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information. If we do update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that we will make additional updates with respect thereto or with respect to other forward-looking statements.