********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Our business, financial condition and results of operations are and will remain subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, which may have materially affected or could materially affect us, including impacting our business, financial condition, results of operations, stock price, credit rating or reputation. You should read these risk factors in conjunction with "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 and our "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in Item 8. These are not the only risks we face. We could also be affected by other unknown events, factors, uncertainties, or risks that we do not currently consider to be material. Business and Operating Risks Changes in general economic conditions, in the U.S. and internationally, may adversely affect us. We conduct operations in over 200 countries and territories. Our operations are subject to national and international economic factors, as well as the local economic environments in which we operate. Changes in general economic conditions are beyond our control, and it may be difficult for us to adjust our business model. For example, we are affected by industrial production, inflation, unemployment, consumer spending and retail activity levels. We have been, and may in the future be, materially affected by adverse developments in these aspects of the economy. We have also been, and may in the future be, adversely impacted by changes in general economic conditions resulting from geopolitical uncertainty and/or conflicts in or arising from the countries and regions where we operate, including the United Kingdom, the European Union, Ukraine, the Russian Federation, the Middle East and the Trans-Pacific region. Changes in general economic conditions, or our inability to accurately forecast these changes or mitigate the impact of these conditions on our business, could materially adversely affect us. Our industry is rapidly evolving. We expect to continue to face significant competition, which could materially adversely affect us. Our industry continues to rapidly evolve, including demands for faster deliveries, increased visibility into shipments and development of other services. We expect to continue to face significant competition on a local, regional, national and international basis. Competitors include the U.S. and international postal services, various motor carriers, express companies, freight forwarders, air couriers, large transportation and e-commerce companies that continue to make significant investments in their own logistics capabilities, some of whom are currently our customers. We also face competition from start-ups and other smaller companies that combine technologies with flexible labor solutions such as crowdsourcing. New technologies may also create additional sources of competition. Competitors have cost, operational and organizational structures that differ from ours and may offer services or pricing terms that we are not willing to offer. Additionally, from time to time we have raised, and may in the future raise, prices and our customers may not be willing to accept these higher prices. If we do not appropriately respond to competitive pressures, including replacing any lost volume or maintaining our profitability, we could be materially adversely affected. Transportation market growth may further increase competition. As a result, competitors may improve their financial capacity and strengthen their competitive positions. Business combinations could also result in competitors providing a wider variety of services and products at competitive prices, which could also materially adversely affect us. Changes in our relationships with any of our significant customers, including the loss or reduction in business from one or more of them, could have a material adverse effect on us. For the year ended December 31, 2023, one customer, Amazon.com, Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for 11.8% of our consolidated revenues. Some of our other significant customers can account for a relatively significant portion of our revenues in a particular quarter or year. Customer impact on our revenue and profitability can vary based on a number of factors, including: contractual volume amounts; pricing terms; product launches; e-commerce or other industry trends, including those related to the holiday season; business combinations and the overall growth of a customer's underlying business; as well as any disruptions to their businesses. Customers could choose, and have in the past chosen, to divert all or a portion of their business with us to one of our competitors, demand pricing concessions, request enhanced services that increase our costs, or develop their own logistics capabilities. In addition, certain of our significant customer contracts include termination rights of either party upon the occurrence of certain events or without cause upon advance notice to the other party. If all or a portion of our business relationships with one or more significant customers were to terminate or significantly change, this could materially adversely affect us. 10 Failure to attract or retain qualified employees could materially adversely affect us. We depend on the skills and continued service of our large workforce. We also regularly hire a large number of part-time and seasonal workers. We must be able to attract, develop and retain a large and diverse global workforce. If we are unable to hire, properly train or retain qualified employees, we could experience higher labor costs, reduced revenues, further increased workers' compensation and automobile liability claims costs, regulatory noncompliance, customer losses and diminution of our brand value or company culture, which could materially adversely affect us. Our ability to control labor costs has in the past been, and is expected to continue to be, subject to numerous factors, including labor-related contractual obligations, turnover, training costs, regulatory changes, market pressures, inflation, unemployment levels and healthcare and other benefit costs. In addition, we strive to lower our cost to serve, including labor costs, through various strategic initiatives. Our inability to continue to retain experienced and motivated employees through the execution of these initiatives may also materially adversely affect us. Strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns by our employees could materially adversely affect us. Many of our U.S. employees are employed under a national master agreement and various supplemental agreements with local unions affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters (the "Teamsters"). In the third quarter of 2023, a new national master agreement with the Teamsters, which runs through July 31, 2028, was ratified. Our airline pilots, airline mechanics, ground mechanics and certain other employees are employed under other collective bargaining agreements. In addition, some of our international employees are employed under collective bargaining or similar agreements. Other employees may choose to organize in the future. Actual or threatened strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns by our employees could adversely affect our ability to meet our customers' needs. As a result, customers have reduced, and in the future may reduce, their business or stop doing business with us if they believe that such actions or threatened actions may adversely affect our ability to provide services. We may permanently lose customers if we are unable to provide uninterrupted service, and this could materially adversely affect us. The terms of collective bargaining agreements also may affect our competitive position and results of operations. Furthermore, our actions or responses to any such negotiations, labor disputes, strikes or work stoppages could negatively impact how our brand is perceived and our reputation and have adverse effects on our business, including our results of operations. We maintain significant physical operations. Increases in operational security requirements impose substantial costs on us and we could be the target of an attack or have a security breach, which could materially adversely affect us. As a result of concerns about global terrorism and homeland security, various governments have adopted and may adopt additional heightened security requirements, resulting in significantly increased operating costs. Regulatory and legislative requirements may change periodically in response to evolving threats. We cannot determine the effect that any new requirements will have on our operations, cost structure or operating results, and new rules or other future security requirements may significantly increase our operating costs and reduce operating efficiencies. Regardless of our compliance with security requirements or our own security measures, we could also be the target of an attack or security breaches could occur, which could materially adversely affect one or more of our operations, or our business. A significant cybersecurity incident, or increased data protection regulations, could materially adversely affect us. We rely on information technology networks and systems and other operational technologies, including the internet and a number of internally-developed systems and applications, as well as certain technology systems from third-party vendors (collectively referred to as "IT") to operate our business. For example, we rely on these technologies to receive package level information in advance of the physical receipt of packages, to move and track packages through our operations, to efficiently plan deliveries, to execute billing processes, and to track and report financial and operational data. Our franchise locations and subsidiaries also rely on IT systems to manage their business processes and activities. IT and other systems (ours, as well as those of our franchisees, acquired businesses, and third-party service providers) have been and will continue in the future to be susceptible to damage, disruptions and shutdowns due to programming errors, defects or other vulnerabilities, power outages, hardware failures, misconfigurations, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, encryption caused by ransomware or malware attacks, exfiltration of data, attacks by foreign governments, state-sponsored actors, or criminal groups, theft, misconduct by employees or other insiders, telecommunications failures, misuse, human errors or other catastrophic events. In recent periods, the frequency and sophistication of cyber-attacks have increased and are expected to continue to increase, including as a result of state-sponsored cybersecurity attacks during periods of geopolitical conflict, such as the ongoing conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East. In addition, the rapid evolution and increased adoption of artificial intelligence technologies may intensify our cybersecurity risks. Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate measures to recognize, detect or prevent the occurrence of any of the events described 11 above. In addition, our security processes, protocols and standards may not prove to be sufficient, effective or may not be complied with, either intentionally or inadvertently. To date, we have not experienced a material cybersecurity incident. However, cybersecurity incidents have in the past and may in the future expose us, our customers, franchisees, service providers or others, to loss, disclosure or misuse of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data or result in disruptions to our operations or those of our customers, franchisees, service providers or others. For example, cyber criminals have in the past gained access, and are expected to continue to try to gain access to customer accounts. The type of activity includes fraudulently diverting and misappropriating items being transported in our network, fraudulently charging shipment fees to customer or franchisee accounts, and fraudulently sending text messages to recipients purporting to be from UPS. The occurrence of any of the events described above could result in material disruptions in our business, the loss of existing or potential customers, damage to our brand and reputation, additional regulatory scrutiny, litigation and other potential material liability. We also may not discover the occurrence of any of the events described above for a significant period of time after the event occurs. We utilize and interact with the IT networks and systems of third parties for many aspects of our business, including related to our customers, franchisees and service providers such as cloud service providers and third-party delivery services. These third parties have access to information we maintain about our company, operations, customers, employees and vendors, or operating systems that are critical to or can significantly impact our business operations. These third parties are subject to risks described above, and other risks, that could damage, disrupt or close down their networks or systems. Security processes, protocols and standards that we implement and contractual provisions requiring security measures that we impose on such third parties may not be sufficient or effective at preventing such events or may not be adhered to. These events have in the past and could in the future result in unauthorized access to, or disruptions or denials of access to, misuse or disclosure of, information or systems that are important to us, including proprietary information, sensitive or confidential data, and other information about our operations, customers, employees and suppliers, including personal information. We have invested and expect to continue to invest in IT security initiatives, IT risk management and disaster recovery capabilities. The costs and operational consequences of implementing, maintaining and enhancing further data or system protection measures could increase significantly to overcome increasingly frequent, complex and sophisticated cyber threats and regulatory requirements. In addition, our customers’ confidence in our ability to protect data and systems and to provide services consistent with their expectations could be impacted, further disrupting our operations. While we maintain cyber insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred, that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all, or that any insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. Although to date we are unaware of any material data breach or cybersecurity incident, including an information system disruption, we cannot provide any assurances that such material events and impacts will not occur in the future. Our efforts to deter, identify, mitigate and/or eliminate future breaches or cybersecurity incidents may require significant additional effort and expense and may not be successful. In addition, there has recently been heightened regulatory and enforcement focus relating to the collection, use, retention, transfer, and processing of personal data in the U.S. (at both the state and federal level) and internationally, including the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation, the California Privacy Rights Act, the Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act, and other similar laws that have been or are expected to be enacted by other jurisdictions. In addition, China and certain other jurisdictions have enacted more stringent data localization requirements. An actual or alleged failure to comply with applicable data protection laws, regulations, or other data protection standards has in the past and may in the future expose us to litigation, fines, sanctions, or other penalties, which could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The regulatory environment is increasingly challenging, based on discretionary factors, and difficult to predict. Consequently, compliance with applicable regulations in the various jurisdictions in which we do business may present material obligations and risks to our business, including significantly expanded compliance burdens, costs, and enforcement risks which are expected to increase over time; require us to make extensive system or operational changes; or adversely affect the cost or attractiveness of the services we offer. 12 Failure to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation could materially adversely affect us. Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain the image of the UPS brand and our reputation. Service quality issues, actual or perceived, could tarnish the image of our brand and may cause customers not to use UPS services. Also, adverse publicity or public sentiment surrounding labor relations, environmental, sustainability and governance concerns, physical or cyber security matters, political activities and similar matters, or attempts to connect our company to such issues, either in the U.S. or elsewhere, could materially adversely affect us. For example, damage to our reputation or loss of brand equity could require the allocation of resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. The proliferation of social media may increase the likelihood, speed, and magnitude of negative brand events. Global climate change could materially adversely affect us. The effects of climate change present financial and operational risks to our business, both directly and indirectly. We have made public statements regarding our intended reduction of carbon emissions, including our goal to achieve carbon neutrality in our global operations by 2050 and our other short- and mid-term environmental sustainability goals. Our ability to meet our goals will depend in part on significant technological advancements with respect to the development and availability of reliable, affordable and sustainable alternative solutions that are outside of our control, including sustainable aviation fuel and alternative fuel vehicles. While we remain committed to being responsive to the effects of climate change and reducing our carbon footprint, there can be no assurances that our goals and strategic plans to achieve those goals will be successful, that the costs related to climate transition will not be higher than expected, that the necessary technological advancements will occur in the timeframe we expect, or at all, that the severity of and or the pace of negative climate-related effects will not accelerate faster than expected, or that proposed regulation or deregulation related to climate change will not have a negative competitive impact, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures or other expenses, revenue or results of operations. Furthermore, methodologies for reporting climate-related information may change and previously reported information may be adjusted to reflect new reporting protocols or regulations, improvements in the availability and quality of third-party data, changing assumptions, changes in the nature and scope of our operations and other changes in circumstances. Our processes and controls for reporting climate-related information across our operations are evolving along with multiple disparate standards for identifying, measuring and reporting sustainability metrics, including disclosures that may be required by the SEC, European and other regulators, and such standards may change over time, which could result in significant revisions to our current goals, reported progress in achieving such goals, or our ability to achieve such goals in the future. Changes in regulation or technology impacting our business could require us to write down the carrying value of assets, which could result in material impairment charges. Moreover, we may determine that it is in our best interests to prioritize other business, social, governance or sustainable investments over the achievement of our current goals based on economic, regulatory or social factors, business strategy or other factors. If we do not meet these goals or there is perception that we failed to meet these goals, then, in addition to regulatory and legal risks related to compliance, we could incur adverse publicity and reaction, which could adversely impact our reputation, and in turn adversely impact our results of operations. Severe weather or other natural or man-made disasters could materially adversely affect us. Weather conditions or other natural or man-made disasters and the increased severity or frequency thereof (including as a result of climate change), including storms, floods, fires, earthquakes, rising temperatures, epidemics, pandemics, conflicts, civil or political unrest, or terrorist attacks, have in the past and may in the future disrupt our business. Customers may reduce shipments, supply chains may be disrupted, demand may be negatively impacted or our costs to operate our business may increase, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. Any such event affecting one of our major facilities could result in a significant interruption in or disruption of our business. A potential result of climate change is more frequent or more severe weather events or natural disasters. To the extent such weather events or natural disasters do become more frequent or severe, disruptions to our business and those of our customers and costs to repair damaged facilities or maintain or resume operations could increase. Furthermore, climate change may reduce the availability or increase the cost of insurance for these negative impacts of natural disasters and adverse weather conditions by contributing to an increase in the incidence and severity of such natural disasters. 13 Economic, political, or social developments and other risks associated with international operations could materially adversely affect us. We have significant international operations and, as a result, we are exposed to changing economic, political and social developments in a number of countries, all of which are beyond our control. Emerging markets are often more volatile than those in other countries, and any broad-based downturn in these markets could reduce our revenues and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to many laws governing our international operations, including those that prohibit improper payments to government officials and commercial customers, govern our environmental impact or labor matters, and restrict where we can do business, our shipments to certain countries and the information that we can provide to non-U.S. governments. Our failure to manage and anticipate these and other risks associated with our international operations could materially adversely affect us. Our inability to effectively integrate any acquired businesses and realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances or dispositions could materially adversely affect us. From time to time we acquire businesses, form joint ventures and strategic alliances, and dispose of operations. Whether we realize the anticipated benefits from these transactions depends, in part, upon successful integration between the businesses involved, the performance of the underlying operations, capabilities or technologies and the management of the acquired operations. Accordingly, our financial results could be materially adversely affected by our failure to effectively integrate acquired operations, unanticipated performance or other issues or transaction-related charges. Financial Risks Changing fuel and energy prices, including gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, and interruptions in supplies of these commodities could materially adversely affect us. Fuel and energy costs have a significant impact on our operations. We require significant quantities of fuel for our aircraft and delivery vehicles and are exposed to the risks associated with variations in the market price for petroleum products, including gasoline, diesel and jet fuel. We seek to mitigate our exposure to changing fuel prices through our pricing strategy and may utilize hedging transactions from time to time. There can be no assurance that this strategy will be effective. If we are unable to maintain or increase our fuel surcharges, higher fuel costs could materially adversely impact our operating results. Even if we are able to offset changes in fuel costs with surcharges, high fuel surcharges have in the past, and may in the future result in a shift from our higher-yielding products to lower-yielding products or an overall reduction in volume, revenue and profitability. Moreover, we could experience a disruption in energy supplies as a result of new or increased regulation, war or other conflicts, weather-related events or natural disasters, actions by producers (including as part of their own sustainability efforts) or other factors beyond our control, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates may have a material adverse effect on us. We conduct business in a number of countries, with a significant portion of our revenue derived from operations outside the United States. Our international operations are affected by changes in the exchange rates for local currencies, in particular the Euro, British Pound Sterling, Canadian Dollar, Chinese Renminbi and Hong Kong Dollar. We are exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily on our short-term debt and that portion of our long-term debt that carries floating interest rates. Additionally, changes in interest rates impact the valuation of our pension and postretirement benefit obligations and the related costs recognized in the statements of consolidated income. The impact of changes in interest rates on our pension and postretirement benefit obligations and costs, and on our debt, is discussed further in Part I, "Item 7 - Critical Accounting Estimates," and Part II, "Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk", respectively, of this report. We monitor and manage foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate exposures, and use derivative instruments to mitigate the impact of changes in these rates on our financial condition and results of operations; however, changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates cannot always be predicted or effectively hedged, and may have a material adverse effect on us. 14 Our business requires significant capital and other investments; if we do not accurately forecast our future investment needs, we could be materially adversely affected. Our business requires significant capital investments, including in aircraft, vehicles, technology, facilities and sortation and other equipment. In addition to forecasting our capital investment requirements, we adjust other elements of our operations and cost structure in response to economic and regulatory conditions. These investments support both our existing business and anticipated growth. Forecasting amounts, types and timing of investments involves many factors which are subject to uncertainty and may be beyond our control, such as general economic trends, revenues, profitability, changes in governmental regulation and competition. If we do not accurately forecast our future capital investment needs, we could under- or over-invest, or have excess capacity or insufficient capacity, any of which could negatively affect our revenues and profitability. Employee health and retiree health and pension benefit costs represent a significant expense to us; further cost increases could materially adversely affect us. Our employee health, retiree health and pension benefit expenses are significant. In recent years, we have experienced increases in some of these costs, in particular, ongoing increases in healthcare costs in excess of the rate of inflation and historically low discount rates that we use to value our company-sponsored defined benefit plan obligations. Increasing healthcare costs, volatility in investment returns and discount rates, as well as changes in laws, regulations and assumptions used to calculate retiree health and pension benefit expenses, may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations, and have required, and may in the future require significant contributions to our benefit plans. Our national master agreement with the Teamsters includes provisions that are designed to mitigate certain healthcare expenses, but there can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful or that these efforts will not materially adversely affect us. We participate in various trustee-managed multiemployer pension and health and welfare plans for employees covered under collective bargaining agreements. As part of the overall collective bargaining process for wage and benefit levels, we have agreed to contribute certain amounts to the multiemployer benefit plans during the contract period. The multiemployer benefit plans set benefit levels and are responsible for benefit delivery to participants. Future contribution amounts to multiemployer benefit plans will be determined through collective bargaining. However, in future collective bargaining negotiations, we could agree to make significantly higher future contributions to one or more of these plans. At this time, we are unable to determine the amount of additional future contributions, if any, or whether any material adverse effect on us could result from our participation in these plans. In addition to our ongoing multiemployer pension plan obligations, we may have an obligation in the future to pay significant coordinating benefits previously earned by UPS employees in the Central States Pension Fund (the "CSPF"). For additional information on our potential liabilities related to the CSPF, see note 5 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. Insurance and claims expense could materially adversely affect us. We have a combination of both self-insurance and high-deductible insurance programs for the risks arising out of our business and operations, including claims exposure resulting from cargo loss, personal injury, property damage, aircraft and related liabilities, business interruption and workers' compensation. Self-insured workers' compensation, automobile and general liabilities are determined using actuarial estimates of the aggregate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of incurred but not reported claims, on an undiscounted basis. Our accruals for insurance reserves reflect certain actuarial assumptions and management judgments, which are subject to a high degree of variability. If the number, severity or cost of claims for which we retain risk continues to increase, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If we lose our ability to, or decide not to, self-insure these risks, our insurance cost could materially increase and we may find it difficult to obtain adequate levels of insurance coverage. 15 Changes in markets and our business plans have resulted, and may in the future result, in substantial impairments of the carrying value of our assets, thereby reducing our net income. We regularly assess the carrying values of our assets relative to their estimated fair values. If the carrying value of an asset exceeds its estimated fair value, we may be required to incur charges to reduce the carrying value thereof. The determination of fair value is dependent on a significant number of estimates and assumptions that could be impacted by a variety of factors, including changes in business strategy, revenue, expenses, government regulations, including regulation related to climate change, costs of capital and economic or market conditions. The use of different estimates or assumptions could also result in different estimates of fair value. Our estimates of fair value have resulted from time to time, and may in the future result, in substantial impairments of our assets. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2023, as a result of a number of factors including changes in business strategy and challenging macroeconomic conditions such as increases in the risk-free interest rate and volatility of the stock prices of market comparables, we incurred impairment charges of $125 and $111 million in respect of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, respectively. In addition, we have been and may be required in the future to recognize increased depreciation and amortization charges if we determine the useful lives or salvage values of our assets are less than we originally estimated. Such changes have in the past, and may in the future, reduce our net income. We may have significant additional tax liabilities that could materially adversely affect us. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and many foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. There are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities in many jurisdictions. Economic and political pressures to increase tax revenue may make resolving tax disputes more difficult. The final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. In addition, changes in U.S. federal and state or international tax laws, other fundamental law changes currently being considered by many countries, and changes in taxing jurisdictions’ administrative interpretations, decisions, policies and positions may materially adversely impact our tax expense and cash flows. Regulatory and Legal Risks Increasingly complex and stringent laws, regulations and policies could materially increase our operating costs. We are subject to complex and stringent aviation, transportation, environmental, security, labor, employment, safety, privacy, disclosure and data protection and other governmental laws, regulations and policies, both in the U.S. and internationally. In addition, we are impacted by laws, regulations and policies that affect global trade, including tariff and trade policies, export requirements, embargoes, sanctions, taxes, monetary policies and other restrictions and charges. Trade discussions and arrangements between the U.S. and various of its trading partners are fluid, and existing and future trade agreements are, and are expected to continue to be, subject to a number of uncertainties, including the imposition of new tariffs or adjustments and changes to the products covered by existing tariffs. The impact of new laws, regulations and policies or decisions or interpretations by authorities applying those laws and regulations, cannot be predicted. Compliance with any new laws, regulations or policies may increase our operating costs or require significant capital expenditures. Any failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or policies in the U.S. or other countries could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct our operations, which could materially adversely affect us. Increasingly stringent regulations related to climate change, including reporting obligations, could materially increase our operating costs. Regulation and required disclosures of greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions and related matters exposes us to potentially significant new taxes, fees, disclosure and compliance obligations and other costs. Compliance with such regulation, and any increased or additional regulation, or the associated costs is further complicated by the fact that various countries and regions may adopt different approaches to climate change regulation and disclosures. For example, the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation ("CORSIA"), a global, market-based emissions offset program to encourage carbon-neutral growth began a voluntary pilot phase in 2021, with mandatory participation scheduled to begin in 2027. The International Civil Aviation Organization, which adopted CORSIA, continues to develop details regarding implementation, but compliance with CORSIA is expected to increase our operating costs, potentially significantly. 16 In the U.S., Congress has considered but, to date, not passed various bills that would regulate GHG emissions. Nevertheless, we believe some form of federal climate change legislation is possible in the future. Even in the absence of such legislation, the Environmental Protection Agency could determine to regulate GHG emissions, especially aircraft or diesel engine emissions, and this could impose substantial costs on us. In addition, the impact that participation in the Paris Climate Accords may have on future U.S. policy regarding GHG emissions, on CORSIA and on other GHG regulation remains uncertain. The extent to which other countries implement that accord could also have a material adverse effect on us. Increased regulation relating to GHG emissions in the U.S. or abroad, especially aircraft or diesel engine emissions, could, among other things, increase the cost of fuel and other energy we purchase and the capital costs associated with updating or replacing our aircraft or vehicles prematurely. We cannot predict the impact any future regulation will have on our cost structure or our operating results. It is likely that such regulation could significantly increase our operating costs and that we may not be willing or able to pass such costs along to our customers. Moreover, even without such regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about the GHGs emitted by companies in the airline and transportation industries could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services, especially our air services. Furthermore, many countries, as well as U.S. states, in which we operate or are subject to regulation have adopted, or are expected to adopt, additional requirements relating to the disclosure of GHG emissions and related matters. In many cases these requirements differ and may conflict from country to country. Compliance with these disclosure requirements may increase our operating costs or require significant management time and attention. Any failure to comply with applicable disclosure regulations in the U.S. (at either the federal or state level) or other countries could result in substantial fines or other penalties, which could materially adversely affect us. We may be subject to various claims and lawsuits that could result in significant expenditures which may materially adversely affect us. The nature of our business exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, property damage, business practices, environmental liability and other matters. Any material litigation or a catastrophic accident or series of accidents could result in significant expenditures and have a material adverse effect on us.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Overview We continue to focus on executing our strategy of Customer First, People Led and Innovation Driven by making it quicker and easier for customers to do business with us. We continue to enhance customer engagement through combining our network with digital capabilities and to invest in the most attractive parts of the market, including healthcare, Asia trade lanes and small- and medium-sized businesses ("SMBs"). In furtherance of our strategy, during 2023 we acquired MNX Global Logistics, a global time-critical and temperature-sensitive logistics provider, and Happy Returns, a technology-focused company that provides innovative end-to-end return services. We opened our state-of-the-art UPS Velocity fulfillment center in the U.S. and announced plans to build a new air hub in Hong Kong. These initiatives, together with continued growth in our Digital Access Program and deployment of our Smart Package Smart Facility technology within U.S. small package operations, are intended to allow us to reach new markets and customers, and better serve our current customer base. During the year, macroeconomic headwinds, including inflationary pressures and changes in consumer behavior, together with volume diversion resulting from our labor negotiations with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters ("Teamsters"), contributed to volume declines in our U.S. small package business. Internationally, the challenging macroeconomic environment, coupled with geopolitical tensions, drove a decline in demand for our small package services in Europe and Asia. Our freight forwarding businesses, including truckload brokerage, were negatively impacted by soft demand and market overcapacity. We expect global economic conditions to improve gradually during 2024, and therefore expect volume and revenue growth to increase in the second half of the year. In the third quarter of 2023, our Teamsters employees ratified a new national master agreement. Under the agreement, wage and benefit rates, combined with all other contract provisions, will increase union cost at a 3.3% compounded annual growth rate over the five-year term of the contract, with the majority of the increase in the first and fifth years. We experienced higher year-over-year labor costs in the second half of the year as a result of these contractual increases, which we expect to persist through the first half of 2024. Faced with a challenging external environment, we remain focused on our strategy. We are taking action intended to right-size our business for the future and focus on key enablers of growth. These moves include exploring strategic alternatives for our truckload brokerage business and reducing headcount through our "fit to serve" initiative to create a more efficient operating model and enhance responsiveness to changing market dynamics. We have two reportable segments: U.S. Domestic Package and International Package, which are together referred to as our global small package operations. Our remaining businesses are reported as Supply Chain Solutions. 23 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Highlights of our results for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, which are discussed in more detail in the sections that follow, include: • Revenue and average daily package volume in our global small package operations decreased for the year, with declines in both commercial and residential shipments across all of our products. These declines were primarily the result of the macroeconomic conditions and union labor-related uncertainties described above, as well as reductions in fuel and demand-related surcharges. • Operating expenses decreased for the year, driven by a reduction in purchased transportation in Supply Chain Solutions and reductions in fuel expense in our small package operations, as well as the impact of our ongoing productivity initiatives and reductions in operating costs; these reductions were partially offset by U.S. Domestic Package segment wage rate increases in the second half of 2023 due to the new Teamsters contract. • Operating profit and operating margin decreased, as revenue declines were greater than operating expense reductions. • We reported net income of $6.7 billion and diluted earnings per share of $7.80. Adjusted diluted earnings per share were $8.78 after adjusting for the after-tax impacts of: ◦ defined benefit pension and postretirement medical benefit plan mark-to-market loss outside of a 10% corridor of $274 million, or $0.32 per diluted share; ◦ Transformation Strategy Costs of $333 million, or $0.39 per diluted share; ◦ goodwill and asset impairment charges of $193 million, or $0.22 per diluted share; and ◦ a one-time compensation payment of $46 million, or $0.05 per diluted share. In the U.S. Domestic Package segment, revenue declines for the year were driven by lower volume, a shift in product mix, and lower fuel and demand-related surcharges. These were somewhat offset by revenue per piece growth due to increases in base rates and changes in customer mix. Expenses decreased for the year, primarily due to declines in fuel prices and reductions in purchased transportation. Higher direct union labor costs were offset by a reduction in hours and lower management compensation expense. In our International Package segment, revenue declines for the year were driven by lower volume and declines in fuel and demand-related surcharges. These were partially offset by the impact of base rate increases. Expenses decreased year over year, driven by lower fuel and third-party transportation expense as a result of volume declines and lower fuel prices. In Supply Chain Solutions, revenue decreases for the year were driven by volume and market rate declines in Forwarding. Expenses decreased for the year, primarily due to a reduction in purchased transportation in Forwarding. 2022 compared to 2021 See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 21, 2023. 24 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Supplemental Information - Items Affecting Comparability We supplement the reporting of our financial information determined under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") with certain non-GAAP financial measures. Adjusted financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as an alternative for, our reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our adjusted financial measures do not represent a comprehensive basis of accounting and therefore may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Adjusted amounts reflect the following (in millions): These items have been excluded from the following discussions of "adjusted" results. The income tax impacts of these items are calculated by multiplying the statutory tax rates applicable in each tax jurisdiction, including the U.S. federal jurisdiction and various U.S. state and non-U.S. jurisdictions, by the tax-deductible adjustments. The blended average effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 were 22.5% and 26.5%, respectively. 25 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS One-Time Compensation Payment During 2023, we made a one-time payment to certain U.S.-based, non-union part-time supervisors following the ratification of our labor agreement with the Teamsters. We do not expect this or similar payments to recur. We supplement the presentation of our operating profit, operating margin, income before income taxes, net income and earnings per share with non-GAAP measures that exclude the impact of this payment. We believe excluding the impact of this one-time payment better enables users of our financial statements to view and evaluate underlying business performance from the same perspective as management. Transformation Charges, and Goodwill and Asset Impairment Charges We supplement the presentation of our operating profit, operating margin, income before income taxes, net income and earnings per share with non-GAAP measures that exclude the impact of charges related to transformation activities, and goodwill and asset impairment charges. We believe excluding the impact of these charges better enables users of our financial statements to view and evaluate underlying business performance from the perspective of management. We do not consider these costs when evaluating the operating performance of our business units, making decisions to allocate resources or in determining incentive compensation awards. For more information regarding transformation activities, see note 18 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. For more information regarding goodwill and asset impairment charges, see note 1 and note 7. Incentive Compensation Program Design Changes During 2022, we completed certain structural changes to the design of our incentive compensation programs that resulted in a one-time, non-cash charge in connection with the accelerated vesting of certain equity incentive awards that we do not expect to repeat. We supplement the presentation of our operating profit, operating margin, income before income taxes, net income and earnings per share with non-GAAP measures that exclude the impact of these changes. We believe excluding the impacts of such changes allows users of our financial statements to identify underlying growth trends in compensation and benefits expense. For more information regarding incentive compensation program design changes, see note 13 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. Long-lived Asset Estimated Residual Value Changes During 2022, we determined to retire six of our existing MD-11 aircraft from operational use in 2023. In connection therewith, we reduced the estimated residual value of our MD-11 fleet, incurring a one-time, non-cash charge on our fully-depreciated aircraft. This charge was allocated between our U.S. Domestic Package and International Package segments. We supplement the presentation of our operating profit, operating margin, income before income taxes, net income and earnings per share with non-GAAP measures that exclude the impact of this charge. We believe excluding the impact of this charge better enables users of our financial statements to understand the ongoing cost associated with our long-lived assets. For more information regarding residual values, see note 4 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Changes and Hedging Activities We supplement the reporting of revenue, revenue per piece and operating profit with adjusted measures that exclude the period over period impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes and hedging activities. We believe currency-neutral revenue, revenue per piece and operating profit information allows users of our financial statements to understand growth trends in our products and results. We evaluate the performance of International Package and Supply Chain Solutions on this currency-neutral basis. Currency-neutral revenue, revenue per piece and operating profit are calculated by dividing current period reported U.S. Dollar revenue, revenue per piece and operating profit by the current period average exchange rates to derive current period local currency revenue, revenue per piece and operating profit. The derived amounts are then multiplied by the average foreign currency exchange rates used to translate the comparable results for each month in the prior year period (including the period over period impact of foreign currency hedging activities). The difference between the current period reported U.S. Dollar revenue, revenue per piece and operating profit and the derived current period U.S. Dollar revenue, revenue per piece and operating profit is the period-over-period impact of currency fluctuations. 26 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Defined Benefit Pension and Postretirement Medical Plan Gains and Losses We incur certain employment-related expenses associated with pension and postretirement medical benefits. These pension and postretirement medical benefits costs for company-sponsored defined benefit plans are calculated using various actuarial assumptions and methodologies, including discount rates, expected returns on plan assets, healthcare cost trend rates, inflation, compensation increase rates, mortality rates and coordination of benefits with plans not sponsored by UPS. Actuarial assumptions are reviewed on an annual basis, unless circumstances require an interim remeasurement of any of our plans. We recognize changes in the fair value of plan assets and net actuarial gains and losses in excess of a 10% corridor (defined as 10% of the greater of the fair value of plan assets or the plan's projected benefit obligation), as well as gains and losses resulting from plan curtailments and settlements, for our defined benefit pension and postretirement medical plans immediately as part of Investment income and other in the statements of consolidated income. We supplement the presentation of our income before income taxes, net income and earnings per share with adjusted measures that exclude the impact of these gains and losses and the related income tax effects. We believe excluding these defined benefit pension and postretirement medical plan gains and losses provides important supplemental information by removing the volatility associated with plan amendments and short-term changes in market interest rates, equity values and similar factors. The remeasurement of our defined benefit pension and postretirement medical plans' assets and liabilities resulted in a loss of $0.4 billion and a gain of $1.1 billion for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The table below shows the amounts associated with each component of the loss and gain, as well as the weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine our net periodic benefit cost, for each year: The pre-tax defined benefit plan gains and losses for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 consisted of the following: 2023 - $0.4 billion pre-tax defined benefit plan loss: • Discount Rates ($384 million pre-tax loss): The weighted-average discount rate for our pension and postretirement medical plans decreased from 5.77% as of December 31, 2022 to 5.40% as of December 31, 2023, primarily due to a decrease in credit spreads on AA-rated corporate bonds in 2023. • Return on Assets ($37 million pre-tax gain): The actual rate of return on plan assets in certain of our international pension plans was higher than our expected rate of return, primarily due to strong global equity market performance. • Demographic and Other Assumption Changes ($4 million pre-tax loss): This loss was due to differences between actual and estimated participant data and demographic factors, including healthcare cost trends, compensation rate increases and rates of termination, retirement and mortality. 27 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2022 - $1.1 billion pre-tax defined benefit plan gain: • Discount Rates ($5.2 billion pre-tax gain): The weighted-average discount rate for our pension and postretirement medical plans increased from 3.11% as of December 31, 2021 to 5.77% as of December 31, 2022, primarily due to an increase in U.S. treasury yields as well as an increase in credit spreads on AA-rated corporate bonds in 2022. • Return on Assets ($4.1 billion pre-tax loss): The actual rate of return on plan assets was lower than our expected rate of return, primarily due to weaker global equity and U.S. bond market performance. • Demographic and Other Assumption Changes ($0.1 billion pre-tax loss): This loss was due to differences between actual and estimated participant data and demographic factors, including healthcare cost trends, compensation rate increases and rates of termination, retirement and mortality. Expense Allocations Certain operating expenses are allocated between our operating segments using activity-based costing methods. These activity-based costing methods require us to make estimates that impact the amount of each expense category that is attributed to each segment. Changes in these estimates directly impact the amount of expense allocated to each segment and therefore the operating profit of each reporting segment. Our allocation methodologies are refined periodically, as necessary, to reflect changes in our businesses. There were no significant changes to our allocation methodologies for 2023 relative to 2022. 28 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS U.S. Domestic Package Revenue The change in revenue was due to the following factors: Revenue was also negatively impacted by having one less operating day in 2023 compared to 2022. 29 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Volume Average daily volume decreased, with reductions in both residential and commercial volume. Challenging external conditions, including inflationary pressures and changes in consumer spending behavior contributed to overall volume declines. Also contributing to the decline was diverted volume associated with our labor negotiations with the Teamsters. Following ratification of the Teamsters contract in the third quarter of 2023, we regained approximately 60% of diverted U.S. volume and gained volume from new customers. We anticipate overall year-over-year volume growth rates will be flat in the first half of 2024, with moderate growth expected in the second half of the year dependent upon improving macroeconomic conditions. Business-to-consumer volume declined 9.3% during the year, driven by changes in consumer spending behavior, as well as the impact of our labor negotiations with the Teamsters. Business-to-consumer volume declines from SMBs were less than those from our large customers, which was partially due to continued growth in our Digital Access Program. Volume from our largest customer declined for the year as planned under our contract terms. Business-to-business volume declined 7.2%, primarily as a result of declines from large customers in industry sectors that are sensitive to the macroeconomic factors discussed above. Uncertainty around our Teamsters contract also negatively impacted volume, primarily during the first nine months of the year. Average daily returns volume increased slightly during the year, benefiting from our acquisition of Happy Returns during the fourth quarter. Within our Air products, average daily volume decreases were driven by continued execution under the contract terms with our largest customer as planned, as well as by other customers making cost trade-offs and utilizing the enhanced speed in our ground network. We expect moderate volume decreases in 2024 as we continue to execute contract terms with our largest customer. Ground residential and Ground commercial average daily volume decreases of 7.1% and 6.7%, respectively, were primarily attributable to volume declines from a number of large customers due to the factors discussed above. We expect volume growth in 2024 to be aligned with overall market growth. Rates and Product Mix In December 2022, we implemented an average 6.9% net increase in base and accessorial rates for our Air and Ground products. Revenue per piece in Air and Ground products increased for the full year, driven by base rate increases and other pricing actions, and favorable changes in customer mix. A shift in product mix, declines in fuel and demand-related surcharges, and a reduction in average billable weight per piece slightly offset these increases. We anticipate moderate revenue per piece growth in 2024 as we continue to execute on pricing initiatives within our strategy. Fuel Surcharges We apply a fuel surcharge on our domestic air and ground services that adjusts weekly. Our air fuel surcharge is based on the U.S. Department of Energy's ("DOE") Gulf Coast spot price for a gallon of kerosene-type fuel, and our ground fuel surcharge is based on the DOE's On-Highway Diesel Fuel price. In 2023, fuel surcharge revenue decreased $1.0 billion, driven by reductions in price per gallon and the impact of lower volumes. Based on current commodity market forecasts, we anticipate a further decline in fuel prices will be offset in part by higher surcharge modifiers. 30 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Operating Expenses Operating expenses and adjusted operating expenses decreased year over year. The costs of operating our integrated air and ground network decreased $1.5 billion, our pickup and delivery costs decreased $641 million and our package sorting costs decreased $216 million. In addition to the impact of one less operating day in 2023, the overall decrease in operating expenses was primarily due to: • Lower compensation expense due to a reduction in direct labor hours resulting from volume declines, as well as the impact of incentive compensation program design changes implemented in the fourth quarter of 2022 and reductions in management headcount. These decreases were partially offset by the impact of the first-year contractual rate increase under our Teamsters contract that became effective August 1. • A reduction in purchased transportation costs, resulting from lower volumes and a reduction in ground volume handled by third-party carriers, as well as the impact of continued strategic initiatives. • Lower fuel expense driven by lower volumes and decreases in the price of jet fuel, diesel and gasoline. These decreases were slightly offset by an increase of $259 million in other operating costs. Notwithstanding the factors discussed above, total cost per piece increased 5.2% for the year and adjusted cost per piece increased 5.7%, driven by overall reductions in volume while maintaining industry leading service levels. We anticipate that the cost per piece growth rate will remain elevated in the first half of 2024 due to Teamsters contractual wage-rate impacts. Operating Profit and Margin As a result of the factors described above, operating profit decreased $1.9 billion, with operating margin decreasing 240 basis points to 8.5%. Adjusted operating profit decreased $2.2 billion, with adjusted operating margin decreasing 280 basis points to 9.0%. 31 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS International Package Revenue The change in revenue was due to the following: 32 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Volume Average daily volume decreased for both domestic and export products. Business-to-consumer volume decreased 10.0%, as geopolitical tensions and global macroeconomic headwinds, including persistent inflation and high interest rates, negatively impacted consumer demand. These factors, coupled with higher U.S. inventory levels, also negatively impacted business-to-business volume, driving a decrease of 5.8%. Volume from both large customers and SMBs declined, driven by declines in the retail, technology and manufacturing sectors. We expect year-over-year volume growth to be relatively flat in the first half of 2024 and to improve in the second half of the year, dependent on an improvement in global macroeconomic conditions. Export volume decreased for the year, driven by declines on intra-Europe and Asia trade lanes that were slightly offset by volume growth in the Americas. Volume on intra-Europe and Asia trade lanes was negatively impacted by overall economic conditions, with Asia to U.S. volumes also impacted by higher inventory levels in the United States. Growth in the Americas was driven by transborder volume to and from the United States. Our premium products experienced a volume decline of 10.6%, primarily from our Transborder and Worldwide Express Saver products. These declines resulted from shifts in customer product preferences, macroeconomic conditions and lower import demand from U.S. consumers. Volume in our non-premium products decreased 1.9%, driven by declines in our Transborder Standard product in Europe and our Worldwide Expedited product. These declines were the result of macroeconomic conditions described above. Domestic volume declines were largest in Europe and Canada, resulting from an overall reduction in customer demand for all of the reasons discussed above. Rates and Product Mix In December 2022, we implemented an average 6.9% net increase in base and accessorial rates for international shipments originating in the United States. Rate changes for shipments originating outside the U.S. are made throughout the year and vary by geographic market. Total revenue per piece decreased 1.0%, primarily due to declines in fuel and demand-related surcharges, as well as unfavorable currency movements during the first half of the year. Base rate increases and favorable shifts in customer and product mix largely offset these declines. Excluding the impact of currency, revenue per piece decreased 0.3%. We expect overall revenue per piece to decline in 2024 driven by a continued shift to non-premium products as the challenging economic outlook persists. Export revenue per piece decreased 4.2%, driven by declines in our Worldwide products. These declines were slightly offset by base rate increases. Excluding the impact of currency, export revenue per piece decreased 3.7%. Domestic revenue per piece increased 4.3%, primarily due to base rate increases and favorable shifts in customer mix. These were slightly offset by unfavorable currency movements in the first half of the year. Excluding the impact of currency, domestic revenue per piece increased 5.2%. Fuel Surcharges The fuel surcharge we apply to international air services originating inside or outside the U.S. is largely indexed to the DOE's Gulf Coast spot price for a gallon of kerosene-type jet fuel. The fuel surcharges for ground services originating outside the U.S. are indexed to fuel prices in the region or country where the shipment originates. Total international fuel surcharge revenue decreased by $532 million, driven primarily by a decrease in the fuel price per gallon and the impact of volume declines. Based on current commodity pricing forecasts, we anticipate a decline in fuel prices to impact fuel surcharge revenue negatively in the first half of 2024. 33 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Operating Expenses Operating expenses, and adjusted operating expenses, decreased year over year. This was primarily due to a reduction of $730 million in the cost of operating our integrated international air and ground network, driven by lower fuel prices and reductions in air charters and aircraft block hours as a result of lower volumes. We expect fuel prices to further decrease in the first half of 2024. Operating Profit and Margin As a result of the factors described above, operating profit decreased $1.1 billion, with operating margin decreasing 390 basis points to 18.1%. Adjusted operating profit decreased $1.1 billion and adjusted operating margin decreased 400 basis points to 18.4%. Uncertainty around increased geopolitical tensions continued to impact volumes in our International Package segment in 2023. Substantially all of our operations in Russia and Belarus were suspended in 2022 and we subsequently commenced liquidation of our Small Package and Forwarding and Logistics subsidiaries in these countries. We expect to complete this process during 2024. Substantially all of our operations in Ukraine remain indefinitely suspended. These actions have not had, and are not expected to have, a material impact on us. 34 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Supply Chain Solutions 35 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenue Total revenue within Supply Chain Solutions decreased for the year, primarily due to lower revenue and volumes across our forwarding businesses. The declines in forwarding and certain of our other businesses more than offset the impact of revenue growth in logistics and our digital businesses. Forwarding revenue was impacted by the following: • International airfreight revenue decreased approximately $1.2 billion. Market rates declined during the year as customer demand remained weak and capacity continued to outpace demand. As a result, Asia export lanes experienced significant pressure during the first half of the year. Year-over-year revenue declines began to moderate in the fourth quarter and we experienced volume growth on Asia export lanes. We expect limited improvements in 2024, primarily from the continued volume growth in Asia. • Revenue in our truckload brokerage business decreased $1.3 billion due to declines in volume and market rates. We focused on revenue quality initiatives for this business during the year and, as a result, were able to grow volume from SMBs. We intend to explore strategic alternatives for this business in 2024. • The remaining reduction in revenue was attributable to declines in ocean freight forwarding, driven by lower market rates. While volume in this business also declined for the year, we experienced year-over-year growth during the second half of the year. We anticipate ocean freight forwarding revenue will remain challenged in 2024 as market overcapacity continues to adversely impact rates. Within our Logistics businesses, healthcare logistics revenue increased $439 million, primarily due to the acquisition of Bomi Group in the fourth quarter of 2022. Additionally, we experienced growth within our other healthcare operations. Revenue in mail services increased $130 million as a result of volume growth, rate increases and a favorable shift in product characteristics. The impact of acquiring MNX Global Logistics during the fourth quarter of 2023 was largely offset by declines in our distribution and post sales operations. We expect growth within our Logistics businesses to continue into 2024. Within our other Supply Chain Solutions businesses, we experienced higher revenue from our digital businesses, including the acquisition of Happy Returns during the fourth quarter of 2023. We anticipate continued growth in these businesses during 2024 as we continue to execute on our strategy. Growth in our digital businesses was more than offset by a reduction of $386 million in transition services provided to the acquirer of UPS Freight. We expect to complete the work associated with these transition services arrangements during the first half of 2024. Revenue was also negatively impacted by $155 million due to lower volumes from our service contracts with the U.S. Postal Service. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses and total adjusted operating expenses for Supply Chain Solutions decreased for the year. Forwarding operating expenses decreased $2.7 billion, including charges of $119 million related to impairments of goodwill and an indefinite-lived trade name. On an adjusted basis, operating expenses decreased $2.8 billion, driven by a reduction in purchased transportation expense as a result of lower market rates and volume declines. Overall, we expect market conditions will improve during 2024, leading to increases in our purchased transportation costs, particularly for airfreight. Logistics operating expenses increased $532 million primarily due to the acquisitions of Bomi Group and MNX Global Logistics. Within our other Supply Chain Solutions businesses, operating expense increases in our digital businesses, including Happy Returns, were more than offset by reductions in other businesses. In total, operating expenses decreased $176 million, including goodwill impairment charges of $117 million. On an adjusted basis, operating expenses decreased $295 million driven by a reduction of $363 million in costs incurred to procure transportation for, and provide transition services to, the acquirer of UPS Freight. We expect these costs to be further reduced, although not significantly, as we complete the obligations under these agreements during the first half of 2024. Transportation costs related to our contracts with the U.S. Postal Service also decreased for the year as a result of lower volumes. 36 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Operating Profit and Margin As a result of the factors described above, total operating profit decreased $937 million, with operating margin decreasing 450 basis points to 6.3%. On an adjusted basis, operating profit decreased $672 million and operating margin decreased 230 basis points to 9.0%. 37 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Consolidated Operating Expenses 38 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Compensation and Benefits Total compensation and benefits and adjusted total compensation and benefits decreased in 2023 compared to 2022. Compensation costs decreased $1.2 billion. On an adjusted basis, compensation costs decreased $676 million. The principal factors impacting the change were: • Management compensation decreased $1.2 billion, including the effect of a 2022 one-time charge related to incentive compensation program design changes. Adjusted management compensation decreased $639 million, driven by lower incentive compensation accruals and lower overall headcount. • The acquisition of Bomi Group in the fourth quarter of 2022 and the acquisitions of MNX Global Logistics and Happy Returns in the fourth quarter of 2023 resulted in additional compensation cost of $116 million within Supply Chain Solutions. • Reductions in U.S. direct labor hours due to volume declines and lower administrative headcount resulted in a reduction in compensation cost of $1.2 billion that was offset by an increase of $1.3 billion due to contractual wage rate increases for our Teamsters workforce. We expect wage rate growth on a year-over-year basis to continue through the first half of 2024 as a result of the new Teamsters contract. Benefits costs increased $566 million and increased $197 million on an adjusted basis, primarily due to: • Other benefits costs increased $348 million, driven by employee separation costs of $303 million as we reduced headcount to create a more efficient operating model and enhance responsiveness to changing market dynamics. In addition, we made a one-time payment of $52 million to certain U.S.-based, non-union part-time supervisors following the ratification of our labor agreement with the Teamsters. On an adjusted basis, other benefits costs decreased $6 million. • Health and welfare costs increased $294 million, driven by increased contributions to multiemployer plans as a result of contractually-mandated rate increases. Costs related to Company-sponsored health and welfare plans increased $51 million due to claims experience and medical cost inflation, partially offset by lower overall headcount. • Accruals for paid time off, payroll taxes and other costs increased $250 million, including payroll taxes associated with the one-time payment discussed above. On an adjusted basis, these accruals increased $240 million, primarily due to contractual wage growth. • Workers' compensation expense increased $61 million due to adverse claims trends, partially offset by the impact from a reduction in hours worked. Partially offsetting these increases, pension and other postretirement benefits expense decreased $392 million, primarily impacted by: • A reduction of $887 million in the cost of Company-sponsored defined benefit plans, driven by a reduction in service cost due to higher discount rates and the cessation of accruals for future service in the UPS Retirement Plan. • An expense increase of $445 million for the UPS 401(k) Savings Plan, primarily due to the impact of replacement contributions for the UPS Retirement Plan. Repairs and Maintenance The decrease in repairs and maintenance expense was primarily due to a reduction in aircraft engine maintenance as the declines in volume we experienced in 2023 resulted in the temporary idling of certain aircraft to better match capacity with demand. Based on current volume projections, we anticipate that certain aircraft may be temporarily idled for periods during 2024, resulting in a further reduction in maintenance expense. The reduction in aircraft engine maintenance was partially offset by increases in the cost of materials and supplies and an increase in routine repairs to buildings and facilities. We expect these trends to continue in 2024 due to ongoing facility maintenance programs. 39 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Depreciation and Amortization We incurred higher depreciation expense during 2023, primarily as a result of new facilities coming into service. We incurred higher amortization expense on capitalized software investments in support of our strategic initiatives, as well as on intangible assets due to the addition of assets arising from the acquisitions of Bomi Group in the fourth quarter of 2022 and MNX Global Logistics and Happy Returns in the fourth quarter of 2023. We expect to incur higher depreciation and amortization expense in 2024 as a result of our recent acquisitions and our continuing investments in network enhancement projects and other technology initiatives. Purchased Transportation The decrease in purchased transportation expense charged to us by third-party air, ocean and ground carriers was primarily attributable to: • Supply Chain Solutions expense decreased $2.8 billion resulting from volume declines and a reduction in market rates paid for services in our forwarding businesses. These impacts were slightly offset by expense increases in our logistics operations due to business growth, third-party rate increases in our mail services business and the impact of acquisitions. • U.S. Domestic Package expense decreased $783 million, driven by reduced utilization of third-party ground carriers as a result of volume declines and network optimization initiatives. • International Package expense decreased $382 million, primarily due to a reduction in air charters and ground transportation expense as a result of volume declines. These decreases were partially offset by unfavorable currency movements during the year. Fuel The decrease in fuel expense was driven by lower prices for jet fuel, diesel and gasoline and the impact of lower volumes. Market prices, and the manner in which we purchase fuel, influence our costs. The majority of our fuel purchases utilize index-based pricing formulas plus or minus a fixed locational/supplier differential. While many of the indices are correlated, each index may respond differently to changes in underlying prices, which in turn can drive variability in our costs. Based on current commodity market forecasts, we anticipate a decline in fuel prices in the first half of 2024. Other Occupancy The increase in other occupancy expense was primarily the result of leased operating facilities coming into service, increases in rental rates due to market demand and inflationary pressures, and higher utility costs. We expect market factors may continue to increase rent and utility costs in 2024. Other Expenses Other expenses increased $176 million for the year, driven by goodwill impairment charges of $125 million in certain Supply Chain Solutions reporting units and a $111 million indefinite-lived trade name impairment charge in our truckload brokerage business. On an adjusted basis, other expenses decreased $25 million. This was primarily attributable to the following: • Reductions in vehicle lease expense of $144 million due to volume declines. • Gains on the sale of surplus real estate of $98 million. • A reduction of $74 million in costs incurred under the transition service agreements with the acquirer of UPS Freight as we reach the termination of these agreements in the first half of 2024. These reductions were largely offset by: • Purchases of supplies for our Smart Package Smart Facility initiative, which increased costs $109 million. • An increase of $85 million in commissions paid for certain online shipments. • An increase of $78 million in hosted software application fees and other technology costs in support of ongoing investments in our digital transformation. 40 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Other Income and (Expense) The following table sets forth investment income and other and interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 (in millions): Investment Income and Other Investment income and other decreased $2.2 billion. Remeasurements of our defined benefit plans resulted in a $359 million mark-to-market loss in 2023 compared to a $1.1 billion gain in 2022. Excluding the impact of these remeasurements, adjusted investment income and other decreased $798 million, driven by a reduction in other pension income. Expected returns on pension assets decreased, primarily due to a lower asset base resulting from negative returns in 2022, while pension interest cost increased as a result of higher discount rates and ongoing plan growth. The reduction in other pension income was partially offset by higher yields on invested balances. Interest Expense Interest expense increased due to higher effective interest rates on floating rate debt. The impact of higher average outstanding debt balances was largely offset by additional capitalization of interest. 41 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Income Tax Expense The following table sets forth income tax expense and our effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 (in millions): For additional information on income tax expense and our effective tax rate, see note 15 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. 42 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Liquidity and Capital Resources We deploy a disciplined and balanced approach to capital allocation, including returns to shareowners through dividends and share repurchases. As of December 31, 2023, we had $6.1 billion in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and marketable securities. We believe that these positions, expected cash from operations, access to commercial paper programs and capital markets and other available liquidity options will be adequate to fund our material short- and long-term cash requirements, including our business operations, planned capital expenditures, anticipated pension contributions, potential acquisitions, debt obligations and planned shareowner returns. We regularly evaluate opportunities to optimize our capital structure, including through issuances of debt to refinance existing debt and to fund operations. Cash Flows From Operating Activities The following is a summary of the significant sources (uses) of cash from operating activities (in millions): (1) Represents depreciation and amortization, gains and losses on derivative transactions and foreign currency exchange, deferred income taxes, allowances for expected credit losses, pension and postretirement medical benefit plan (income) expense, stock compensation expense, changes in casualty self-insurance reserves, goodwill and other asset impairment charges and other non-cash items. Net cash from operating activities decreased $3.9 billion in 2023, primarily due to the reduction in net income. It was also impacted by: • A decrease in our hedge margin collateral position due to changes in the fair value of derivative contracts used in our foreign currency hedging program. • A payment of $323 million in 2023 for employer payroll taxes that were deferred under the Coronavirus Aid, Recovery and Economic Security Act in 2020, compared to a payment of $234 million in 2022. • A decrease in income taxes payable, primarily due to changes in our uncertain tax positions. These factors were partially offset by: • A decrease in contributions to our company-sponsored, defined benefit pension and postretirement medical plans. We made discretionary contributions to our qualified U.S. pension plans of $1.2 billion in 2023 compared to $1.9 billion in 2022. • Working capital benefited primarily from the timing of group welfare plan contributions and other compensation-related items. Cash payments for income taxes were $2.0 and $2.6 billion for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, with the decrease corresponding to the reduction in net income. 43 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS As of December 31, 2023, approximately $1.9 billion of our total worldwide holdings of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were held by foreign subsidiaries. The amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held by our U.S. and foreign subsidiaries fluctuates throughout the year due to a variety of factors, including the timing of cash receipts and disbursements in the normal course of business. Cash provided by operating activities in the U.S. continues to be our primary source of funds to finance domestic operating needs, capital expenditures, share repurchases, pension contributions and dividend payments to shareowners. All cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held by foreign subsidiaries are generally available for distribution to the U.S. without any U.S. federal income taxes. Any such distributions may be subject to foreign withholding and U.S. state taxes. When amounts earned by foreign subsidiaries are expected to be indefinitely reinvested, no accrual for taxes is provided. As of December 31, 2023, we had $37 million of restricted cash related to certain tax and regulatory matters and acquisitions. 44 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Cash Flows From Investing Activities Our primary sources (uses) of cash from investing activities for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 were as follows (in millions): (1) In addition to capital expenditures of $5.2 and $4.8 billion for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, there were principal repayments of finance lease obligations of $126 and $149 million, respectively. These are included in cash flows from financing activities. We have commitments for the purchase of aircraft, vehicles, equipment and real estate to provide for the replacement and enhancement of existing capacity and targeted growth. Future capital spending will depend on a variety of factors, including economic and industry conditions. Our current investment program anticipates investments in technology initiatives and enhanced network capabilities, including over $1.0 billion of projects to support our environmental sustainability goals in 2024. It also provides for maintenance of buildings, facilities and equipment and replacement of certain aircraft within our fleet. We currently expect our capital expenditures will be approximately $4.5 billion in 2024, of which approximately 50 percent will be allocated to network enhancement projects and other technology initiatives. Total capital expenditures increased in 2023 compared to 2022 as a result of: • Spending on buildings, facilities and plant equipment increased due to network enhancements, capacity expansion projects and facility maintenance. • Vehicles expenditures increased, driven by the timing and availability of vehicle replacements and continuing investments in our network. • Information technology expenditures increased as a result of continuing investments in our digital capabilities and network automation. • Aircraft expenditures decreased as a result of lower payments on open aircraft orders and final delivery of aircraft. Proceeds from the disposal of businesses, property, plant and equipment were higher in 2023 relative to 2022, primarily due to the sale of surplus real estate during 2023. Net purchases of marketable securities increased in 2023 due to a shift to longer duration investments. During the first quarter of 2024, we anticipate liquidating our portfolio of marketable securities to provide additional resources for our short-term and strategic operating needs. 45 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Cash paid for acquisitions in 2023 was primarily attributable to the acquisitions of MNX Global Logistics and Happy Returns, and the purchase of development areas for The UPS Store. In 2022, we acquired Bomi Group and Delivery Solutions, as well as the purchase of development areas for The UPS Store. Cash used in other investing activities decreased, primarily due to our 2022 investment of $252 million in the parent company of CommerceHub, Inc. and changes in other non-current investments. 46 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Cash Flows From Financing Activities Our primary sources (uses) of cash for financing activities were as follows (amounts in millions, except per share data): We repurchased 12.8 and 19.0 million shares of class B common stock for $2.3 and $3.5 billion under our stock repurchase program for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We do not anticipate repurchasing any shares in 2024. For additional information on our share repurchase activities, see note 12 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, dividends reported within shareowners' equity include $239 and $249 million, respectively, of non-cash dividends that were settled in shares of class A common stock. The declaration of dividends is subject to the discretion of the Board and will depend on various factors, including our net income, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects and other relevant factors. We paid quarterly cash dividends of $1.62 and $1.52 per share in 2023 and 2022, respectively. In the first quarter of 2024, we declared a quarterly cash dividend of $1.63 per share. Issuances of debt in 2023 consisted of borrowings under our commercial paper program and fixed- and floating-rate senior notes. The principal balances of the senior notes are as follows: • $900 million 4.875% senior notes; • $1.1 billion 5.050% senior notes; and • $529 million floating rate senior notes. There were no issuances of debt in 2022. Repayments of debt in 2023 included $23 million of debt assumed in the Bomi Group acquisition, scheduled principal payments on our finance lease obligations and reductions in our commercial paper balances. We also repaid the following senior notes at maturity: • $1.0 billion 2.500% senior notes; • €700 million 0.375% senior notes; and • $500 million floating rate senior notes. 47 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Repayments of debt in 2022 included scheduled principal payments on our finance lease obligations and repayment of senior notes at maturity as follows: • $1.0 billion 2.450% senior notes; • $600 million 2.350% senior notes; and • $400 million floating rate senior notes. The amount of commercial paper outstanding fluctuates based on daily liquidity needs. The following is a summary of our commercial paper program (in millions): As of December 31, 2023, we had no outstanding balances under our European commercial paper program. We had no outstanding balances under our U.S. or European commercial paper programs as of December 31, 2022. We have $1.5 billion of fixed- and floating-rate senior notes that mature in 2024. We intend to repay or refinance these amounts when due. We consider the overall fixed and floating interest rate mix of our portfolio and the related overall cost of borrowing when planning for future issuances and non-scheduled repayments of debt. The cash received from common stock issuances in both 2023 and 2022 resulted from activity within the UPS 401(k) Savings Plan and our employee stock purchase plan. Other financing activities included cash used to repurchase shares to satisfy tax withholding obligations on vested employee stock awards. Cash outflows for this purpose were $402 and $516 million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The decrease was due to changes in required repurchase amounts. Except as disclosed in note 9 to the audited, consolidated financial statements, we do not have guarantees or other off-balance sheet financing arrangements, including variable interest entities, which we believe could have a material impact on our financial condition or liquidity. Sources of Credit See note 9 to the audited, consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our available credit and our debt covenants. 48 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Contractual Commitments We have material cash requirements for known contractual obligations and commitments in the form of finance leases, operating leases, debt obligations, purchase commitments and certain other liabilities that are disclosed in the notes to the audited, consolidated financial statements and discussed below. We expect to fund these obligations and other discretionary payments, including expected returns to shareowners, primarily through cash from operations. We anticipate making discretionary contributions to our company-sponsored U.S. defined benefit pension and postretirement medical benefit plans of approximately $1.3 billion in 2024, which are included within Expected employer contributions to plan trusts shown in note 5 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. There are currently no anticipated required minimum cash contributions to our qualified U.S. pension plans in 2024. The amount of any minimum funding requirement, as applicable, for these plans could change significantly in future periods depending on many factors, including plan asset returns, discount rates, other actuarial assumptions, changes to pension plan funding regulations and the discretionary contributions that we make. Actual contributions made in future years could materially differ and consequently required minimum contributions beyond 2024 cannot be reasonably estimated. We expect contributions to the UPS 401(k) Savings Plan to be approximately $670 million in 2024. As discussed in note 6 to the audited, consolidated financial statements, we are not currently subject to any surcharges or minimum contributions outside of our agreed-upon contractual rates with respect to the multiemployer pension and health and welfare plans in which we participate. Contribution rates to these multiemployer pension and health and welfare plans are established through the collective bargaining process. We have outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds that are discussed in note 9 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. Additionally, we have $1.5 billion of fixed- and floating-rate senior notes that mature in 2024. We intend to repay or refinance these amounts when due. Estimated future interest payments on our outstanding debt total approximately $14.7 billion. This amount was calculated using the contractual interest payments due on our fixed- and variable-rate debt based on interest rates as of December 31, 2023. For debt denominated in a foreign currency, the U.S. Dollar equivalent principal amount of the debt at the end of the year was used as the basis to project future interest payments. Annual principal payments on our long-term debt, and purchase commitments for certain capital expenditures are also set out in note 9 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. Included within these purchase commitments are firm commitments to purchase 21 new Boeing 767-300 aircraft to be delivered between 2024 and 2026 and two used Boeing 747-8F aircraft to be delivered in 2024. Additionally, we anticipate purchasing approximately 3,000 alternative fuel vehicles in 2024. In addition to purchase commitments, we have other contractual agreements including equipment rentals, software licensing and commodity contracts. Our finance lease obligations, including purchase options that are reasonably certain to be exercised, relate primarily to leases on aircraft and real estate. These obligations, together with our obligations under operating leases are set out in note 11 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. Under provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, we elected to pay a one-time transition tax on certain unrepatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries over eight years. The remaining balance will be paid between 2024 and 2026. Additionally, we have uncertain tax positions that are further discussed in note 15 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. As discussed in note 1 to the audited, consolidated financial statements, as of December 31, 2023, we had a restricted cash balance related to certain tax and regulatory matters in Italy. We anticipate this balance will increase by approximately $61 million in 2024. Contingencies See note 5 and note 15 to the audited, consolidated financial statements for a discussion of pension-related matters and income-tax-related matters, respectively. See note 10 for a discussion of judicial proceedings and other matters arising from the conduct of our business activities. 49 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Collective Bargaining Agreements Status of Collective Bargaining Agreements See note 6 to the audited, consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the status of collective bargaining agreements and "Risk Factors - Business and Operating Risks - Strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns by our employees could materially adversely affect us" in Part I, Item 1A of this report. Multiemployer Benefit Plans We contribute to a number of multiemployer pension and health and welfare plans under the terms of collective bargaining agreements that cover our union-represented employees. These agreements set forth the annual contribution rate increases for the plans that we participate in. New Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted Accounting Standards See note 1 to the audited, consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recently adopted accounting standards. Accounting Standards Issued But Not Yet Effective See note 1 to the audited, consolidated financial statements for a discussion of accounting standards issued, but not yet effective. 50 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Critical Accounting Estimates The amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported in our financial statements are affected by estimates and judgments that are necessary to comply with GAAP. We base our estimates and judgments on prior experience, current trends, various other assumptions and third-party input that we consider reasonable to our circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from our estimates, which would affect the related amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements. While estimates and judgments are applied in arriving at many reported amounts, we believe that the following critical accounting estimates involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity. Contingencies From time to time, we are involved in various judicial proceedings and other matters arising from the conduct of our business that result in exposure to various contingent liabilities. The events that may impact our contingent liabilities are often unique and generally are not predictable. At the time a contingency is identified, we consider all relevant facts as part of our evaluation. We apply judgment when establishing a range of reasonably possible losses arising from contingencies. Our judgment is influenced by our understanding of currently available information and potential outcomes of these actions, including the advice from our internal counsel, external counsel and other senior management. We accrue amounts associated with judicial proceedings and other contingencies when and to the extent a loss becomes probable and can be reasonably estimated. For such accruals, we record the amount we consider to be the best estimate within a range of potential losses; however, when there appears to be a range of equally possible losses, our accrual is at the low end of this range. The likelihood of a loss with respect to a particular contingency is often difficult to predict and determining a reasonable estimate of the loss or a range of potential losses may not be practicable based on the information available. Additionally, events may arise that were not anticipated and, as a result, the outcome of a contingency may result in a loss that differs materially from our previously estimated liability. Except as disclosed in note 10 to the audited, consolidated financial statements, contingent losses that were probable and estimable were not material to our financial position or results of operations as of, or for the year ended, December 31, 2023. In addition, we have certain contingent liabilities that have not been recognized as of, or for the year ended, December 31, 2023, because a loss was not reasonably estimable. Contingent obligations relating to income taxes and self-insurance are discussed below. Goodwill and Intangible Asset Impairments We test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually as of July 1, or more frequently if circumstances require. We assess goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level. The determination of reporting units requires judgment, and if we changed the definition of our reporting units, it is possible that we would have reached different conclusions when performing our impairment tests. Changes in our management structure or business acquisitions may result in changes to our reporting units. We initially evaluate qualitative factors to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If the qualitative assessment is not conclusive, or at our election, we quantitatively assess the fair value of a reporting unit to test goodwill for impairment. This assessment uses a combination of income and market approaches to develop an estimate of reporting unit fair value. These approaches consider both entity-specific and observable market information under the fair value hierarchy in ASC Topic 820 and changes in, or additions to, available information may affect the assumptions we use in estimating fair value. • The income approach uses a discounted cash flow (“DCF”) model, which requires us to make a number of significant assumptions to produce an estimate of future cash flows. These assumptions include projections of future revenue, costs, capital expenditures, working capital and the cost of capital. During periods of time in which macroeconomic conditions are uncertain or volatile, these assumptions are subject to a greater degree of uncertainty. We are also required to make assumptions relating to our overall business and operating strategy, and the regulatory and market environment. Changes in any of our assumptions could significantly impact the fair value of one or more of our reporting units. The projections that we use in our DCF model are updated annually, or more often if necessary, and will change over time based on the historical performance and changing business conditions for each of our reporting units. 51 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS • The market approach uses observable market data of comparable public companies to estimate fair value utilizing financial metrics (such as enterprise value to net sales). We apply judgment to select appropriate comparison companies based on the business operations, size and operating results of our reporting units. Changes to our selection of comparable companies or market multiples may result in changes to the estimates of fair value of our reporting units. In 2023, we performed our annual goodwill impairment testing using both qualitative and quantitative methods. In developing our valuation assumptions underlying the quantitative annual impairment testing, we determined that the cost of capital for our Roadie and Delivery Solutions reporting units had increased, driven by increases in the risk-free interest rate and volatility of the stock prices of market comparables. The results of our testing using these assumptions indicated that the carrying values of our Roadie and Delivery Solutions reporting units exceeded their estimated fair values. As a result, during the third quarter of 2023 we recorded and disclosed goodwill impairment charges of $56 million related to Roadie and $61 million related to Delivery Solutions. The Delivery Solutions impairment represented all of the goodwill associated with this reporting unit. These charges are included within Other expenses in the statement of consolidated income. We did not incur any goodwill impairment charges in 2022 or 2021. We test the indefinite-lived Coyote trade name associated with our truckload brokerage business for impairment in accordance with GAAP using the relief from royalty method. This valuation approach requires that we make a number of assumptions to estimate fair value, including projections of future revenues, market royalty rates, tax rates, discount rates and other relevant variables. The projections we use in the model are updated annually, or more often if necessary, and will change over time based on historical performance and changing business conditions. Our annual testing as of July 1 indicated that the fair value of the Coyote trade name was in excess of its carrying value, although the excess was less than 10 percent. Since the annual testing date, our truckload brokerage business continued to be negatively impacted by market conditions, which resulted in revenue declines. In response, during the fourth quarter of 2023, we began to evaluate strategic alternatives for this business. As a result, we tested the Coyote trade name for impairment as of December 31, 2023, using forecasts that reflected updated market conditions and our evaluation of strategic alternatives related to this business. Based on the results of this testing, we concluded that the carrying value of the Coyote trade name exceeded its estimated fair value and recorded an impairment charge of $111 million. The revised carrying value of this trade name as of December 31, 2023 was $89 million. Our trade name valuation estimate remains sensitive to further changes in assumptions, including business performance, royalty rates and the cost of capital. A decrease of 10 percent in forecasted cash flows, a decrease of 40 basis points in our selected royalty rate or an increase of 100 basis points in the cost of capital would each result in an incremental impairment charge of $10 million. We continue to monitor the impact of business performance, our determination of strategic alternatives and external factors on the valuation assumptions for this trade name. In connection with matters resulting in the Coyote trade name impairment, we also tested the goodwill associated with this reporting unit for impairment as of December 31, 2023 using the updated forecasts of future cash flows described above. While this interim test did not indicate an impairment, we continue to monitor this reporting unit and may be required to perform additional interim tests in future periods as facts and circumstances evolve. The goodwill associated with this reporting unit as of December 31, 2023 was $482 million. Within our consolidated goodwill balance of $4.9 billion as of December 31, 2023, approximately $0.9 billion was represented by certain reporting units within Supply Chain Solutions, including Coyote and Roadie, that have a limited excess of fair value as of the most recent valuation. If the cost of capital were increased by 100 basis points or our projected cash flows were reduced by 10 percent, it is reasonably possible that these reporting units would be impaired. We continue to monitor all of our reporting units between annual testing dates. Our finite-lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. These assets are tested for impairment as part of asset groups that may include other long-lived assets. See "Critical Accounting Estimates – Depreciation, Residual Value and Impairment of Property, Plant and Equipment" for a discussion of estimates impacting asset groups. In addition, a reduction in expected useful life, or a decision to sell or abandon an intangible asset before the end of its useful life, may increase amortization expense, which could have a material impact on our results of operations. See note 7 to the audited, consolidated financial statements for a discussion of finite-lived intangible asset impairments. 52 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Self-Insurance Accruals We base self-insurance reserves on actuarial estimates, which are determined with the assistance of a third-party actuary through a complex process that includes the application of various actuarial methods and assumptions. The process incorporates actual loss experience and judgments about expected future development based on historical experience, recent and projected trends in claim frequency and severity, changes in the level of risk retained under our programs and changes in claims handling practices, among other factors. Workers' compensation, automobile liability and general liability insurance claims may take a number of years to resolve. Consequently, actuarial estimates are required to project the ultimate cost that will be incurred to resolve a claim. Several factors can affect the actual cost, or severity, of a claim, including: • Risk retention limits; • Length of time a claim remains open; • Trends in healthcare costs; • Results of any related litigation; and • Changes in legislation. Furthermore, claims may emerge in future years for events that occurred in a prior policy period at a rate that differs from actuarial projections. All these factors can result in revisions to actuarial projections and produce a material difference between estimated and actual operating results. Due to the complexity and inherent uncertainty associated with the estimation of our workers’ compensation, automobile and general claims liabilities, the third-party actuary develops a range of expected losses. We believe our estimated reserves for such claims are adequate; however, actual experience in claims frequency and/or severity of claims could materially differ from our estimates and affect our results of operations. We also sponsor several health and welfare insurance plans for our employees. Liabilities and expenses related to these plans are based on estimates of the number of employees and eligible dependents covered under the plans, global health events, anticipated utilization by participants and overall trends in medical costs and inflation. We believe our estimates are reasonable and appropriate. Actual experience may differ materially from these estimates and, therefore, produce a material difference between estimated and actual operating results. Self-insurance reserves as of December 31, 2023 and 2022 were as follows (in millions): (1) Included within Other Non-Current Liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. Our total reserves related to prior year claims increased by $39 million in 2023 and decreased by $5 million in 2022 as a result of changes in estimated claim costs. A five percent deterioration or improvement in both the assumed claim severity and claim frequency rates used to estimate our self-insurance reserves would result in an increase or a decrease, respectively, of approximately $300 million in our reserves and expenses as of, and for the year ended, December 31, 2023. 53 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Pension and Other Postretirement Medical Benefits Our pension and postretirement medical benefit costs are calculated using various actuarial assumptions and methodologies. These assumptions include discount rates, healthcare cost trend rates, inflation, compensation increases, expected returns on plan assets, mortality rates, regulatory requirements and other factors. The assumptions utilized in recording the obligations under our plans represent our best estimates. We believe that they are reasonable based on historical experience and performance, as well as factors that might cause future expectations to differ from past trends. Differences in actual experience or changes in assumptions may affect our pension and postretirement medical benefit obligations and future expenses. The primary factors contributing to actuarial gains and losses each year are: • Changes in the discount rate used to value pension and postretirement medical benefit obligations as of the measurement date; • Differences between expected and actual returns on plan assets; • Changes in demographic assumptions, including mortality; • Differences in participant experience from demographic assumptions; and • Changes in coordinating benefits with plans not sponsored by UPS. We recognize changes in the fair value of plan assets and net actuarial gains or losses in excess of a corridor (defined as 10% of the greater of the fair value of plan assets or the plans' projected benefit obligations) immediately within income upon remeasurement of a plan. Other components of pension expense (referred to as "net periodic benefit cost"), primarily service and interest costs and the expected return on plan assets, are reported on a quarterly basis. The following sensitivity analysis shows the impact of a 25 basis point change in the assumed discount rate and return on assets for our pension and postretirement benefit plans, and the resulting increase (decrease) in our obligations and expense as of, and for the year ended, December 31, 2023 (in millions): (1) Amount calculated based on 25 basis point increase / decrease in the expected return on assets. (2) Amount calculated based on 25 basis point increase / decrease in the actual return on assets. Refer to note 5 to the audited, consolidated financial statements for information on our potential liability for coordinating benefits related to the Central States Pension Fund. 54 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Depreciation, Residual Value and Impairment of Property, Plant and Equipment As of December 31, 2023, we had $36.9 billion of net property, plant and equipment, the most significant category of which was aircraft. In accounting for property, plant and equipment, we make estimates of the expected useful lives and residual values to arrive at depreciation expense. We evaluate the useful lives of our property, plant and equipment based on our usage, maintenance and replacement policies, and taking into account physical and economic factors that may affect the useful lives of the assets. A reduction in expected useful life, or a decision to sell or abandon a long-lived asset before the end of its useful life, may increase depreciation expense. Our accounting policy for property, plant and equipment is set out in note 1 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. We monitor our long-lived assets for indicators of impairment which may include, but are not limited to, a significant change in the extent to which an asset is utilized and operating or cash flow losses associated with the use of the asset. If circumstances are present that indicate the carrying value of our long-lived assets may not be recoverable, we perform impairment testing at the asset group level. Asset groups represent the lowest level at which independent cash flows can be identified. Determining asset groups requires judgment and changes in the way asset groups are defined could have a material impact on the results of impairment testing. We perform recoverability testing by comparing the undiscounted cash flows of the asset group to its carrying value. If the carrying amount of the asset group is determined not to be recoverable, a write-down to fair value is recorded. Fair values are determined based on quoted market values, discounted cash flows or external appraisals, as appropriate. Details of long-lived asset impairments are included in note 4 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. In estimating the useful lives and expected residual values of aircraft, we consider actual experience with the same or similar aircraft types, multi-year volume projections for our air products and the types of aircraft required to efficiently operate our network. Adverse changes in volume could result in our current aircraft capacity exceeding projected demand, which may result in temporary idling of aircraft to better match capacity with demand. Temporarily idled assets are classified as held-and-used, and we continue to record depreciation expense for these assets. As a result of the reduction in volumes experienced during 2023, we temporarily idled nine aircraft for an average of approximately five months. As of December 31, 2023 all of these aircraft had re-entered operational service. Based on current volume projections, we anticipate that certain aircraft may be temporarily idled during part of 2024. Over a longer period, continued adverse changes in volume forecasts could lead to an excess of aircraft, resulting in an impairment charge or reduction in expected useful life that may result in increased depreciation expense. Revisions to estimates of useful lives and residual values could also be caused by changes to our maintenance programs, governmental regulations, operational intentions, or market prices for new and used aircraft of the same or similar types. We periodically evaluate our estimates and assumptions, and adjust them, as necessary, on a prospective basis through depreciation expense. In 2022, we reduced the estimated residual value of our MD-11 aircraft and associated engines to zero based on updated operational plans for these aircraft and our expectations for their eventual disposal. In connection with this change in estimate, in 2022 we recorded a one-time depreciation charge to adjust the residual value of our fully-depreciated MD-11 aircraft. Refer to note 4 to the audited, consolidated financial statements for information on the impact to our results of operations. Fair Value Measurements In the normal course of business, we hold and issue financial instruments that contain elements of market risk, including derivatives, marketable securities and debt. Certain of these financial instruments are required to be recorded at fair value, principally derivatives, marketable securities and certain other investments. These financial instruments are measured and reported at fair value on a recurring basis based upon a fair value hierarchy (Levels 1, 2 and 3). Fair values are based on listed market prices (Level 1), when such prices are available. To the extent that listed market prices are not available, fair value is determined based on other relevant factors, including dealer price quotations (Level 2). If listed market prices or other relevant factors are not available, inputs are developed from unobservable data reflecting our own assumptions and include situations where there is little or no market activity for the asset or liability (Level 3). Certain financial instruments, including over-the-counter derivative instruments, are valued using pricing models that consider, among other factors, contractual and market prices, correlations, time value, credit spreads and yield curve volatility factors. Changes in the fixed income, foreign currency exchange and commodity markets will impact our estimates of fair value in the future, potentially affecting our results of 55 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS operations. Further information on our accounting policies relating to fair value measurements can be found in note 1 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2023, the majority of our financial instruments were categorized as either Level 1 or Level 2. Refer to notes 3, 9 and 17 to the audited, consolidated financial statements for further information on these instruments. A quantitative sensitivity analysis of our exposure to changes in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates is presented in the Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk section of this report. Our pension and postretirement plan assets include investments in hedge funds, as well as private debt, private equity and real estate funds, which are primarily measured using net asset value ("NAV") as a practical expedient for fair value, as appropriate. These investments were valued at $9.9 billion as of December 31, 2023. In order to estimate NAV, we evaluate audited and unaudited financial reports from fund managers and make adjustments for investment activity between the date of the financial reports and December 31. These investments are not actively traded, and their values can only be estimated using these assumptions. If our estimates of activity changed, this could have a material impact on the reported value of these investments and on the return on assets that we report. Refer to note 5 to the audited, consolidated financial statements for further information on our pension and postretirement plan assets. Certain non-financial assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, including property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets. These assets are subject to fair value adjustments in certain circumstances, such as when there is evidence of an impairment or when an asset or disposal group is classified as held for sale. In accounting for business acquisitions, we allocate the fair value of purchase consideration to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. Estimating the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires judgment, especially with respect to identified intangible assets as there may be limited or no observable transactions within the market, requiring us to develop internal models to estimate fair value. For example, estimating the fair value of identified intangible assets may require us to develop valuation assumptions, including but not limited to, future expected cash flows from these assets, synergies and the cost of capital. Certain inputs require us to determine assumptions that are reflective of a market participant view of fair value. Changes in any of these assumptions may materially impact the amount we recognize for identifiable assets and liabilities, in addition to the residual amount allocated to goodwill. Income Taxes We make certain estimates and judgments in determining income tax expense within our financial statements. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of income by legal entity and jurisdiction, tax credits, benefits and deductions, and in the calculation of deferred tax assets and liabilities arising from timing differences in the recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement purposes, as well as tax, interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions. Significant changes in these estimates may result in an increase or decrease to our tax expense in a subsequent period. We assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets. If recovery is not likely, we increase our provision for taxes by recording a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets that we estimate will not ultimately be recoverable. We believe that we will ultimately recover a substantial majority of the deferred tax assets recorded in our consolidated balance sheets. However, should there be a change in our ability to recover our deferred tax assets, our tax provision would increase in the period in which we determined that the recovery was not likely. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on a two-step process. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. Once it is determined that the position meets the recognition threshold, the second step requires us to estimate and measure the largest amount of tax benefit that is more likely than not to be realized upon ultimate settlement. The difference between the amount of recognizable tax benefit and the total amount of tax benefit from positions filed or to be filed with the tax authorities is recorded as a liability for uncertain tax benefits. It is inherently difficult and subjective to estimate such amounts, as we have to determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We reevaluate uncertain tax positions quarterly based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement could result in the recognition of a tax benefit or additional tax expense. In 2023, we recognized a net tax benefit of $102 million following resolution of certain global tax audits. 56 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS