********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this section and elsewhere in this report or in any other of our filings with the SEC could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows. In evaluating us, you should consider carefully, among other things, the risks described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face, but do represent those risks and uncertainties that we believe are material to us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that, as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we deem immaterial may also harm our business. Some statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including statements in the following risk factors, constitute forward-looking statements. Please refer to the section entitled “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Business and Operations We are and expect to continue to be significantly dependent on our tenants for substantially all of our revenues and, because our tenants are required to pay a significant portion of their cash flow from operations to us pursuant to, and subject to the terms and conditions of, our respective lease agreements and other agreements with them, an event that has a material adverse effect on any of our significant tenants could have a material adverse effect on us. We depend on our tenants to operate the properties that we own in a manner that generates revenues sufficient to allow the tenants to meet their obligations to us. Our two largest tenants, Caesars and MGM, comprise approximately 76% of our total leasing revenues for the year ended December 31, 2023. In addition, Caesars and MGM are obligated to pay us approximately $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively, in estimated annual payments for 2024 under our respective agreements with them. Because our leases are triple-net leases, in addition to the rent payment obligations for these tenants, we depend on these tenants to pay substantially all insurance, taxes, utilities and maintenance and repair expenses in connection with these leased properties and to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their businesses. There can be no assurance that our significant tenants will have sufficient assets, income or access to financing to enable them to satisfy their payment and other obligations under their leases with us, or that any applicable guarantor will be able to satisfy its guarantee of the applicable tenant’s obligations. Our tenants rely on the properties they or their respective subsidiaries own and/or operate for income to satisfy their obligations, including their debt service requirements and rental and other payments due to us or others and these payments constitute a significant portion of their cash flow from operations. If income at our leased properties were to significantly decline for any reason, or if a tenant’s debt service requirements were to significantly increase or if their creditworthiness were to become impaired for any reason, a tenant or any applicable guarantor may become unable or unwilling to satisfy its payment and other obligations under their leases or other agreements with us. The inability or unwillingness of a significant tenant to meet its payment or other obligations under a lease or other payment obligation with us could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, or results of operations, including our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Additionally, these obligations may limit our tenants’ ability to fund their operations or development projects, raise capital, make acquisitions, and otherwise respond to competitive and economic changes by making investments to maintain and grow their portfolio of businesses and properties, which may adversely affect their competitiveness and the ability of their applicable subsidiaries and guarantors to satisfy their obligations to us under the applicable lease agreements and the related guarantees, respectively.  Moreover, given the importance of our significant tenants to our business, a failure on the part of a significant tenant to maintain its business performance or experience any deterioration of its creditworthiness could materially and adversely affect us, even in the absence of a default under our agreements with such tenant. Due to our dependence on rental and other payments from our significant tenants as our primary source of revenue, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights under our lease agreements or other agreements with our significant tenants or terminate such other agreements or, due to our predominantly master lease structure, certain leases with respect to any particular property. Failure by our significant tenants to comply with the terms of their respective leases or to comply with the gaming regulations to which the leased properties are subject could result in, among other things, the termination of an applicable Lease Agreement, requiring us to find another tenant for such property, to the extent possible, or a decrease or cessation of rental payments by such tenants, as the case may be. In such event, we may lose our interest in a property subject to an applicable ground lease or be unable to locate a suitable, creditworthy tenant at similar rental rates or at all, which would have the effect of reducing our rental revenue and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and the value of our common stock. 17 We are dependent on the gaming industry and may be susceptible to risks associated with it, including heightened competition, changes in consumer behavior and discretionary spending as a result of an economic slowdown, increased inflation, rising interest rates, or otherwise, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. As the landlord and owner of gaming facilities, we are impacted by risks associated with the gaming industry, which is characterized by a high degree of competition among a large number of participants, including land-based casinos, riverboat casinos, dockside casinos, video lottery, sweepstakes and poker machines not located in casinos, Native American gaming, emerging varieties of internet gaming, sports betting and other forms of gaming in the United States and, in a broader sense, gaming operators face competition from all manner of leisure and entertainment activities. Gaming competition is intense in most of the markets where our facilities are located. In recent years, there has been additional significant competition in the gaming industry as a result of, among other things, the upgrading or expansion of facilities by existing market participants, the entrance of new gaming participants into a market, increased internet gaming and sports betting or legislative changes in various jurisdictions. As competing properties and new markets are opened, our tenants’ businesses may be adversely impacted and we may be negatively impacted. Additionally, the casino entertainment industry represents a significant source of tax revenues to the various jurisdictions in which casinos operate. From time to time, various state and federal legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, including increases in tax rates, which would affect the industry. If adopted, such changes could adversely impact the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of our gaming tenants, including our significant tenants. Historically, economic indicators such as GDP growth, consumer confidence and employment are correlated with demand for gaming, entertainment and leisure properties, including casinos and racetracks, and economic recessions, contractions or slowdowns have generally led to a decrease in discretionary spending on associated leisure activities. Decreases in discretionary spending or changing consumer preferences and weakened general economic conditions such as, but not limited to, recessions, lackluster recoveries from recessions, contractions, high unemployment levels, higher income taxes, inflation, low levels of consumer confidence, weakness in the housing market, cultural and demographic changes, instability in global, national and regional economic activity and increased stock market volatility have historically resulted in material adverse effects on leisure and business travel, discretionary spending and other areas of economic behavior that directly impact the gaming industry and, as a result, may negatively impact our business, financial condition, and operating cash flows. Other factors over which we and our tenants have no control, including public health crises, labor shortages, travel restrictions, supply chain disruptions and property closures, may also adversely affect the gaming industry. Therefore, so long as our investments are concentrated in gaming-related assets, our success is dependent on the gaming industry. As we are subject to risks inherent in substantial investments in a single industry, a decrease in the gaming business would likely have a greater adverse effect on us than if we owned a more diversified real estate portfolio, particularly because, among other things, a component of the rent under certain of the lease agreements will be based, over time, on the performance of the gaming facilities operated by our tenants on our properties. As a result of such dependence on the gaming industry, the immediate and long-term effects of the foregoing on the gaming industry could be material and adverse to our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. Because a concentrated portion of our revenues are generated from the Las Vegas Strip, we are subject to greater risks than a company that is more geographically diversified. Our properties on the Las Vegas Strip generated approximately 49 % of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2023 and we expect this concentration to continue in the foreseeable future. Therefore, our business may be significantly affected by risks common to the Las Vegas tourism industry. For example, the cost and availability of air services and the availability of interstate highway travel to Las Vegas, as well as the impact of any events that disrupt travel to and from Las Vegas can adversely affect the business of our tenants with operations in Las Vegas, who rely on domestic and international tourism for a significant portion of their visitors to our properties in Las Vegas. Additionally, work stoppages and other labor unrest, strikes or other business interruptions in Las Vegas could impact our tenants’ operations at our properties on the Las Vegas Strip. Moreover, due to the importance of our properties on the Las Vegas Strip, we may be disproportionately affected by general risks such as acts of terrorism, natural disasters, including major fires, floods and earthquakes, severe or inclement weather, and climate change impacts, including heat stress, water stress, and drought, should such developments occur in or nearby, or otherwise impact, Las Vegas. 18 Our pursuit of acquisitions of, and investments in, experiential assets and other strategic opportunities are in a highly competitive industry and may be unsuccessful or fail to meet our expectations, and we may not identify all potential costs and liabilities in connection with such acquisitions or investments. We intend to continue to pursue acquisitions of, and investments in, gaming, hospitality, wellness, entertainment and leisure sector properties and activities directly related thereto, which we refer to as “experiential assets”, and other strategic opportunities. However, we operate in a highly competitive industry and face competition from other REITs, investment companies, private equity firms and hedge funds, sovereign funds, lenders, gaming companies and other investors, some of whom are larger and have greater resources, access to capital and lower costs of capital or different investment parameters. Increased competition will make it more challenging to identify and successfully capitalize on transaction opportunities that meet our investment objectives, including with respect to experiential assets and other strategic opportunities. If we cannot identify and purchase or make investments in a sufficient quantity of gaming properties and other experiential properties at favorable prices or if we are unable to finance transactions on commercially favorable terms, our business, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, the fact that we must distribute 90% of our REIT taxable income in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT may limit our ability to rely upon rental payments from our leased properties or subsequently acquired properties in order to finance these strategic investments and transactions. As a result, if debt or equity financing is not available on acceptable terms, further transactions might be limited or curtailed. Pursuant to our investment strategy, we may often be engaged in evaluating potential transactions and other strategic alternatives, including through discussions with potential counterparties. We anticipate that the investigation of such transactions and strategic alternatives, including the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements with respect to such transactions and strategic alternatives, will require substantial management time and attention and may impose substantial costs for financial advisors, accountants, attorneys and other advisors. If a decision is made not to proceed with a specific transaction, or if we fail to consummate a transaction for any reason, including those beyond our control, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable and significant management time will have been lost, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Additionally, we may not identify all potential costs and liabilities in the course of our due diligence in connection with these opportunities. In the event that a cost or liability is not adequately identified in the course of such due diligence or addressed in the course of negotiating such transaction, we may not fully realize the anticipated benefit of such transaction, if at all, or our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Further, even if we are able to acquire or invest in additional properties in the future, there is no guarantee that such properties will be able to maintain their historical performance or achieve their projected performance, which may prevent the ability of our tenants to pay the partial or total amount of the required lease payments under the respective lease agreements or our borrowers to fulfill their payment obligations under the applicable agreement. In addition, our financing of these acquisitions and investments could negatively impact our cash flows and liquidity, require us to incur substantial debt or involve the issuance of new equity, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders. Due to market considerations and in light of the timing typically required to obtain regulatory approvals for gaming transactions, any such financing may take place substantially in advance of closing of such transaction (and the receipt of rent or other payments under a lease or other applicable agreement) and negatively impact our operating results during such period. In addition, we cannot make assurances that we will be successful in implementing our business and growth strategies or that any additional transactions will improve our operating results. The failure to identify and acquire or invest in new properties effectively, or the failure of any acquired properties to perform as expected, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We and our tenants face extensive regulation from gaming and other regulatory authorities, and our charter provides that any of our shares held by investors who are found to be unsuitable by state gaming regulatory authorities are subject to redemption. The ownership, operation, and management of gaming and racing facilities are subject to extensive regulation by one or more gaming authorities in each applicable jurisdiction where gaming and racing facilities are permitted. These gaming and racing regulations impact our gaming and racing tenants and persons associated with our gaming and racing facilities, which in many jurisdictions include us as the landlord and owner of the real estate. Certain gaming authorities may require us and/or our affiliates to maintain certain licenses or be found suitable as a landlord, and certain of our stockholders, officers and directors may be required to be found suitable as well. Gaming regulatory authorities also have broad powers with respect to the licensing of casino operations and, under certain circumstances, gaming authorities may revoke, suspend, condition or limit the gaming or other licenses of us or our tenants, impose substantial fines or take other actions, any one of which could adversely impact the business, financial condition and results of operations of us or our tenants. 19 In many jurisdictions, gaming laws can require certain of our stockholders to file an application, be investigated, and qualify or have such person or entity’s suitability determined by gaming authorities. Gaming authorities have very broad discretion in determining whether a stockholder is required to file an application and whether an applicant should be deemed suitable. Gaming authorities may conduct investigations into the conduct or associations of our directors, officers, key employees or investors to ensure compliance with applicable standards. If we are required to be found suitable and are found suitable as a landlord, we will be registered as a public company with the gaming authorities and will be subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to be a stockholder or to have any other relationship with us, we engage in certain transactions with that stockholder or fail to cause that stockholder to relinquish his or her securities. Our charter provides that all of our shares held by investors who are found to be unsuitable by regulatory authorities are subject to redemption upon our receipt of notice of such finding. Many jurisdictions also require any person who acquires beneficial ownership of more than a certain percentage of voting securities of a gaming company and, in some jurisdictions, non-voting securities, typically 5% of a publicly traded company, to report the acquisition to gaming authorities, and gaming authorities may require such holders to apply for qualification, licensure or a finding of suitability, subject to limited exceptions for “institutional investors” that hold a company’s securities for passive investment purposes only. Our outstanding shares of capital stock are held subject to applicable gaming laws. Any person owning or controlling at least 5% of the outstanding shares of any class of our capital stock is required to promptly notify us of such person’s identity and apply for qualification, licensure, finding of suitability, or an institutional investor waiver, as applicable. Some jurisdictions may also limit the number of gaming licenses in which a person may hold an ownership or a controlling interest. Additionally, because we and our tenants are subject to regulation in numerous jurisdictions, and because regulatory agencies within each jurisdiction review compliance with gaming laws in other jurisdictions, it is possible that gaming compliance issues in one jurisdiction may lead to reviews and compliance issues in other jurisdictions. The loss of gaming licenses by our tenants could result in, among other things, the cessation of operations at one or more of the facilities we lease to such tenants. The loss  of gaming licenses by us could result in, among other things, an event of default under certain of our indebtedness, and cross-default provisions in our debt agreements could cause an event of default under one debt agreement to trigger an event of default under our other debt agreements. Finally, substantially all material loans, significant acquisitions, leases, sales of securities and similar financing transactions by us and our subsidiaries must be reported to, and in some cases approved by, gaming authorities in advance of the transaction. Changes in control through merger, consolidation, stock or asset acquisitions, management or consulting agreements, or otherwise may be subject to receipt of prior approval of certain gaming authorities. Entities seeking to acquire control of us or one of our subsidiaries (and certain of our affiliates) must satisfy gaming authorities with respect to a variety of stringent standards prior to assuming control. Failure to satisfy the stringent licensing standards may preclude entities from acquiring an ownership or a controlling interest in us or one of our subsidiaries (and certain of our affiliates) and/or require the entities to divest such interest. Required regulatory approvals can delay or prohibit transfers of our gaming properties or the consummation of transactions (including pursuant to our put-call and right of first refusal agreements), which could result in periods in which we are unable to receive rent related to, or otherwise realize the benefits of, such transactions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. Our gaming tenants are (and any pending and future tenants of our gaming properties will be) required to be licensed under applicable law in order to operate any of our properties as gaming facilities. If the lease agreements for our gaming properties are terminated (which could be required by a regulatory agency) or expire, any new tenant must be licensed and receive other regulatory approvals to operate our properties as gaming facilities. Any delay in, or inability of, the new tenant to receive required licenses and other regulatory approvals from the applicable state and county government agencies may prolong the period during which we are unable to collect the applicable rent. Further, in the event that the lease agreements for our gaming properties are terminated or expire and a new tenant is not licensed or fails to receive other regulatory approvals, the properties may not be operated as gaming facilities and we will not be able to collect the applicable rent. Moreover, we may be unable to transfer or sell the affected properties as gaming facilities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. In addition, given the highly regulated nature of the gaming industry, any future transactions we enter into (including pursuant to our put-call, right of first offer and right of first refusal agreements) are likely to be subject to regulatory approval in one or more jurisdictions, including with respect to any transfers in ownership, operating licensure or other regulatory considerations. If the consummation of a transaction (including with respect to the future entry into a new lease agreement) is delayed or prohibited by regulatory authorities, we may be limited or otherwise unable to realize the benefits of the proposed transaction. 20 We are subject to additional risks due to our international investments and acquisitions, including properties that we own, or may acquire in the future, outside the United States. The value of the PURE Portfolio, the Century Canadian Portfolio and any other properties in which we invest or acquire in non-U.S. jurisdictions may be affected by factors specific to the laws and business practices of such jurisdictions. The laws and business practices of foreign jurisdictions may expose us to risks that are different from and in addition to those commonly found in the United States, including, but not limited to, the following: (i) the burden of complying with non-U.S. laws, including land use and zoning laws or more stringent environmental laws; (ii) existing or new laws relating to the foreign ownership of real property and laws restricting our ability to repatriate earnings and cash into the United States; (iii) the potential for expropriation; (iv) adverse effects of changes in the exchange rate between U.S. dollars and foreign currencies in which revenue is generated at our properties outside the United States; (v) imposition of adverse or confiscatory taxes, changes in income and other tax rates or laws and changes in other operating expenses in such foreign jurisdictions; (vi) possible challenges to the anticipated tax treatment of our revenue and our properties; (vii) the potential difficulty of enforcing rights and obligations in other countries; and (viii) our more limited experience and expertise in foreign countries relative to our experience and expertise in the United States. Under certain of our lease agreements, rent is payable in foreign currencies with respect to some or all of the properties under the applicable lease agreements. In addition, we have incurred and may continue to incur indebtedness that is denominated in foreign currencies to fund our international investments, including, for  the PURE Portfolio and Century Canadian Portfolio acquisitions. As of December 31, 2023, we had an aggregate of $173.8 million in outstanding debt under our Revolving Credit Facility, including portions denominated in Canadian dollars and Great British Pounds (based on the applicable exchange rates as of December 31, 2023). As a result, we are subject to foreign currency risk due to potential fluctuations in exchange rates between these foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar. A significant change in the value of the foreign currency of one or more countries where we have a significant investment or receive significant rental revenue may have a material adverse effect on our business and, specifically, our U.S. dollar reported financial condition and results of operations. While we may enter into hedging and other derivatives instruments to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, we may not realize the anticipated benefits from these arrangements or these arrangements may be insufficient to mitigate our exposure. Our long-term, triple-net leases include rent escalations over specified periods that will generally continue to apply regardless of the amount of cash flows generated by the properties subject to such lease agreements, and such lease agreements may not result in fair market lease rates over time, which could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and reduce the amount of funds available to make distributions to stockholders. All of our rental revenue and a substantial majority of our total revenue is generated from our long-term triple-net lease agreements and, consistent with typical triple-net leases, our lease agreements have longer lease terms, with a weighted average lease term (inclusive of extension options) of all of our lease agreements as of December 31, 2023 of 41.3 years. See and for additional information regarding such agreements. Our lease agreements contain annual escalation provisions, certain of which are tied to changes in CPI (or similar metrics with respect to other geographies), although these annual escalators in some cases do not apply until future periods as specified under the applicable lease agreements. In addition, certain of these annual escalators are subject to a maximum cap, which could result in lower rent escalation than any such CPI increase in a single year or over a longer period. For example, under the MGM Master Lease, the escalator is fixed at 2.0% for years two through ten of the MGM Master Lease and, for the remainder of the term, the escalator is the greater of 2.0% and CPI, subject to a 3.0% cap. Inflation as measured by changes in CPI increased at an average of 3.4% in 2023. Accordingly, there is a risk that contractual rental increases in future years will fail to result in fair market rental rates during those years. Sustained inflation rates that are above any CPI escalator cap could, over time, result in our receiving rental income below fair market lease rates, which could adversely impact the fair value of the assets, our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the annual rent escalations under the lease agreements over specified periods will generally continue to apply regardless of the amount of cash flows generated by the properties that are subject to such lease agreements. Accordingly, if the cash flows generated by such properties decrease, do not increase at the same rate as the rent escalations, or do not increase as anticipated in connection with any capital improvement projects, the rents payable under such lease agreements will comprise a higher percentage of the cash flows generated by the applicable tenant and its subsidiaries, which could make it more difficult for the applicable tenants to meet their payment obligations to us under the lease agreements and could ultimately adversely affect any applicable guarantor’s ability to satisfy their respective obligations to us under the related guarantees. Finally, our tenants may choose not to renew our lease agreements at the end of the initial lease term or any additional renewal term thereafter. If a lease agreement expires without renewal and we are not able to find suitable, credit-worthy tenants to replace the previous tenants on the same or more attractive terms, our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected, including our ability to make distributions to our stockholders at the then 21 current level, or at all. As a result, our results of operations and cash flows and distributions to our stockholders could be lower than they would otherwise be if we did not enter into long-term triple net leases, or entered into such leases on different terms. Our ability to sell, dispose of and use our properties may be limited by the contractual terms of our lease agreements, tax protection agreements or other agreements with our tenants, or otherwise impacted by matters relating to our real estate ownership. Our ability to sell or dispose of our properties may be hindered by, among other things, the fact that such properties are subject to the lease agreements, as the terms of the lease agreements require that a purchaser assume the lease agreements or, in certain cases, enter into a severance lease with the tenants for the sold property on substantially the same terms as contained in the applicable lease agreement, which may make our properties less attractive to a potential buyer than alternative properties that may be for sale. Additionally, our properties may be subject to use restrictions and/or operational requirements imposed pursuant to ground leases, restrictive covenants or conditions, reciprocal easement agreements or operating agreements or other instruments that could, among other things, adversely affect our ability to lease space to third parties, enforce our rights as a lender and otherwise realize additional value from these properties. In connection with certain of our transactions, including the MGP Transactions (as defined in ), we entered into tax protection agreements which could limit our ability to sell or otherwise dispose of the subject property or properties contributed to us, and we may enter into such agreements in the future. Therefore, although it may be in the best interests of our stockholders for us to sell a certain property, it may be economically prohibitive for us to do so during the specified period because of a tax protection agreement. For example, in connection with the MGP Transactions, we entered into the MGM Tax Protection Agreement pursuant to which, subject to certain exceptions, we agreed to indemnify the Protected Parties (as defined in the MGM Tax Protection Agreement) for certain tax liabilities, during the Protected Period (as defined in the MGM Tax Protection Agreement), resulting from (i) the sale, transfer, exchange or other disposition of Protected Property (as defined in the MGM Tax Protection Agreement), (ii) a merger, consolidation, or transfer of all of the assets of, or certain other transactions undertaken by us pursuant to which the ownership interests of the Protected Parties in VICI OP are required to be exchanged in whole or in part for cash or other property, (iii) the failure of VICI OP to maintain approximately $8.5 billion of nonrecourse indebtedness allocable to the Protected Parties, which amount may be reduced over time in accordance with the MGM Tax Protection Agreement, and (iv) the failure of VICI OP or us to comply with certain tax covenants that would impact the tax liabilities of the Protected Parties. In addition, the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV previously entered into a tax protection agreement with MGM with respect to built-in gain and debt maintenance related to MGM Grand Las Vegas and Mandalay Bay, which is effective through mid-2029, and by acquiring MGP and subsequently the remaining 49.9% interest in the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV, we bear any indemnity under this existing tax protection agreement. In the event that we breach restrictions in these agreements, we will be liable for grossed-up tax amounts associated with the income or gain recognized as a result of such breach. We are exposed to risks related to our properties that are subject to ground and use lease arrangements which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are and may in the future be the lessee under long-term ground lease arrangements at certain of our properties or make investments into properties that are subject to long-term ground lease arrangements. Unless we purchase a fee interest in the underlying land and/or buildings subject to the leases, we will not own such properties or portions of such properties, as the case may be. Furthermore, unless we extend the terms of these ground and use leases prior to expiration, we will no longer have rights with respect to these properties or portions of the properties, as the case may be, upon expiration of the applicable ground leases, which could impact our tenant’s ability to operate the property, to the extent the portions of property covered under the applicable ground and/or use lease are material to the operations of the property, and our rights and obligations under applicable lease agreements, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, payments under such leasehold interests may be periodically adjusted pursuant to the relevant contractual arrangements and may result in significantly higher rents, and while such payments are the responsibility of our tenants under the respective lease agreements, such increases could adversely affect us and our tenants’ business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, due to the greater risk in a loan secured by a leasehold interest than a loan secured by a fee interest, we face risks related to our investments secured by a leasehold interest, including if the borrower were to default under the terms of our loan or violate the terms of such ground lease. We may not be able to purchase properties pursuant to our rights under certain agreements, including put-call, call right, right of first refusal agreements and right of first offer agreements, including if we are unable to obtain additional financing. Pursuant to certain put-call agreements, call agreements, right of first refusal agreements and right of first offer agreements, as further described in we have certain rights to purchase the properties 22 subject to these agreements, subject to the terms and conditions included in each agreement with respect to each property.  In many cases, the counterparties to these agreements are not obligated to sell the applicable properties and our right to purchase these properties under these agreements may never be triggered. Additionally, in order to exercise these rights and any similar rights we obtain in the future or to fulfill our obligations with respect to certain put rights, we would likely be required to secure additional financing and our substantial level of indebtedness or other factors could limit our ability to do so on attractive terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us, we may not be able to exercise these rights and acquire these properties, or to fulfill our obligations with respect to certain put rights. Even if financing with acceptable terms is available to us, we may not exercise any of these rights. Further, each of the transactions remains subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable agreements, including with respect to due diligence, applicable regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. These agreements are subject to additional terms and conditions that may be disadvantageous to us. For example, the put-call agreement with respect to the Caesars Forum Convention Center also provides that if Caesars exercises their put right and, among other things, the sale of the Caesars Forum Convention Center to us does not close, under certain circumstances, a repurchase right in favor of Caesars, which, if exercised, would result in the sale of the Harrah’s Las Vegas property by us to Caesars. Such a sale may be at disadvantageous terms and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The bankruptcy or insolvency of any tenant, borrower or guarantor could result in the termination of the lease agreements, the related guarantees or loan agreements and certain lease agreements being re-characterized as disguised financing transactions, resulting in material losses to us. We are subject to the credit risk of our tenants and borrowers in connection with the rental and other obligations owed to us under applicable leases, guarantees, and other financing agreements. We cannot provide assurances that our tenants and borrowers will not default on their obligations and fail to make payments to us. If our tenants and borrowers are unable to meet their financial obligations, including making rental or loan payments to us, as applicable, such inability may result in their bankruptcy or insolvency. In addition, in the event of a bankruptcy of our tenants, borrowers or their respective guarantors, any claim for damages under the applicable lease, loan agreement or guarantee may not be paid in full. For these and other reasons, the bankruptcy of one or more of our tenants, borrowers or their respective guarantors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. Furthermore, with respect to tenants whose obligations are guaranteed by a single guarantor (including Caesars and MGM), although the tenants’ performance and payments are guaranteed, a default by the applicable tenant, or by the guarantor with respect to its guarantee, may cause a default under certain circumstances with regard to the entire portfolio covered by the respective lease agreements. In event of such a default, there can be no assurances that the tenants or the guarantor would assume the applicable lease agreements or the related guarantees, and if such lease agreements or guarantees were rejected, the tenant or the guarantor, as applicable, may not have sufficient funds to pay the damages that would be owed to us as a result of the rejection and we might not be able to find a replacement tenant on the same or better terms. In addition, if Caesars declares bankruptcy, our business could be materially and adversely affected if a bankruptcy court re-characterizes certain components of our transactions with Caesars in connection with the merger between Eldorado Resorts, Inc. and Caesars in 2020 as a disguised financing transaction, specifically our modifications of the Caesars Las Vegas Master Lease to increase the annual rent payable to us associated with Caesars Palace Las Vegas and Harrah’s Las Vegas. In the event of re-characterization, our claim under a lease agreement with respect to the additional rent acquired in the Caesars Transaction could either be secured or unsecured. The bankrupt tenant and other affiliates of Caesars and their creditors under this scenario might have the ability to restructure the terms, including the amount owed to us under the applicable lease with respect to the additional rent, and, if approved by the bankruptcy court, we could be bound by the new terms and prevented from collecting such additional rent acquired in the Caesars Transaction, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We may sell or divest different properties or assets after an evaluation of our portfolio of businesses. Such sales or divestitures could affect our costs, revenues, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. From time to time, we may evaluate our properties and may, as a result, sell or attempt to sell, divest, or spin-off different properties or assets, subject, if applicable, to the terms of the lease agreements. For example, in 2020 and 2021, we, together with Caesars, sold Harrah’s Reno, Bally’s Atlantic City and Harrah’s Louisiana Downs in accordance with the terms of the Caesars Regional Master Lease. These sales or divestitures could affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and our ability to comply with applicable financial covenants. Divestitures have inherent risks, including possible delays in closing transactions (including potential difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals), the risk of lower-than-expected sales proceeds for the divested assets, and potential post-closing claims for indemnification. In addition, economic 23 conditions, such as high inflation or rising interest rates, and relatively illiquid real estate markets may result in fewer potential bidders and unsuccessful sales efforts with respect to potential sales or divestitures. Our properties and the properties securing our loans are subject to risks from climate change, natural disasters, other adverse or extreme weather conditions, casualty and condemnation risks, and terrorist attacks or other acts of violence, the occurrence of which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Pursuant to an assessment from a third-party environmental consultant in 2022, we evaluated the degree of risk to which our individual properties and overall portfolio are subject due to the potential impact of flooding, heat stress, water stress, drought, extreme winds, wildfires, and seismic events, as well as other extreme weather conditions caused by climate change and determined that our properties and our borrowers’ properties secured as collateral are located in areas that may be subject to risks from climate change, natural disasters and adverse or extreme weather conditions, and therefore are subject to varying degrees of risk with respect to these potential impacts. The assessment determined that our properties are subject to varying degrees of risk with respect to these potential impacts and, with respect to our overall portfolio, we determined that flooding, water stress and heat stress pose the greatest material risk to our properties, including: (i) water stress and heat stress risks at our Nevada properties; (ii) flooding, heat stress and wind risks at our properties in the Southeast United States; (iii) flooding and heat stress risks in the Midwest United States; and (iv) flooding risks at our properties in the Northeast United States and West Virginia. Such natural disasters or weather conditions may decrease the value of our properties through physical damage, a decrease in economic activity and demand and/or a decrease in rent for the properties located in the areas affected by these conditions and may adversely affect the viability of our tenants’ operations and continued investment in our properties, as well as the value of such properties. In Las Vegas and the surrounding region, a significant majority of water is sourced from the Colorado River and water levels in Lake Mead, which serves as a reservoir, have steadily declined in recent years (with a partial recovery in 2023), resulting in various regulatory bodies pursuing water conservation initiatives.  Severe drought or prolonged water stress experienced in Las Vegas and the surrounding region or in the other regions in which we own properties, as well as the potential impact of regulatory efforts to address such conditions, could adversely affect the business and financial results of the tenants operating at our properties in such regions. Although the tenants and borrowers, as applicable, are required to maintain both property and business interruption insurance coverage under the applicable lease agreements, such coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits, including limitation on the coverage period for business interruption. In addition, there are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. As a result, we cannot make assurances that we or our tenants will be able to fully insure such losses or fully collect, if at all, on claims resulting from such climate change impacts, natural disasters and extreme weather conditions. If any of the climate and extreme weather scenarios described above were to occur, we may incur material costs to address these conditions and protect such assets (to the extent not covered by our tenants under the terms of our leases). Insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement cost of a loss, and the insurance proceeds received might not be adequate to restore the economic position with respect to such property. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds our policy coverage limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future cash flows from those properties. Furthermore, under such circumstances we may be required under the terms of the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV CMBS loan agreement to contribute all or a portion of insurance proceeds to the repayment of such debt, which may prevent us from restoring such properties to their prior state. If the insurance proceeds (after any such required repayment) were insufficient to make the repairs necessary to restore the damaged properties to a condition substantially equivalent to its state immediately prior to the casualty, we or our tenants may not have sufficient liquidity to otherwise fund the repairs and may be required to obtain additional financing, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. Furthermore, our insurance premiums may increase as a result of the threat of climate change or the effects of climate change may not be covered by our insurance policies. In addition, changes in federal and state legislation and regulations on climate change could result in increased capital expenditures to improve the energy efficiency of our existing properties or other related aspects of our properties in order to comply with such regulations or otherwise adapt to climate change. Additionally, changes to applicable building and zoning laws, ordinances and codes since the initial construction of our properties may limit a tenant’s ability to restore the premises of a property to its previous condition in the event of a substantial casualty loss with respect to the property or the ability to refurbish, expand or renovate such property to remain compliant, or increase the cost of construction in order to comply with changes in building or zoning codes and regulations. If a tenant is unable to restore a property to its prior use after a substantial casualty loss or is required to comply with more stringent building or zoning codes and regulations, we may be unable to re-lease the space at a comparable effective rent or sell the property at an acceptable price, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. 24 Terrorist attacks or other acts of violence, including increasing crime rates, may result in declining economic activity, which could harm the demand for services offered by our tenants and the value of our properties or collateral, either generally or with respect to a specific region or property. Such a resulting decrease in demand could make it difficult for us to renew or re-lease our properties to suitable, credit-worthy tenants at lease rates equal to or above historical rates. Terrorist activities, violence or crime also could directly affect the value of our properties through damage, destruction or loss, and the availability of insurance for such acts, or of insurance generally, might be lower or cost more, which could increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. To the extent that any of our tenants or borrowers are affected by future terrorist attacks, acts of violence or crime, its business similarly could be adversely affected, including the ability of our tenants or borrowers to continue to meet their obligations to us. These events might erode business and consumer confidence and spending and might result in increased volatility in national and international financial markets and economies. Any one of these events might decrease demand for real estate, decrease or delay the occupancy of our new or redeveloped properties, and limit our access to capital or increase our cost of raising capital or materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. The loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success and ability to grow depends, in large part, upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team, particularly our Chief Executive Officer, our President and Chief Operating Officer, our Chief Financial Officer and our General Counsel. Any unforeseen loss of our executive officers’ services, or any negative market or industry perception with respect to them or arising from their loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. We do not have key man or similar life insurance policies covering members of our executive management. We have employment agreements with our executive officers, but these agreements do not guarantee that any given executive will remain with us, and there can be no assurance that any such officers will remain with us. In addition, the appointment or replacement of certain key members of our executive management team may be subject to regulatory approvals based upon suitability determinations by gaming regulatory authorities in certain of the jurisdictions where our properties are located. If any of our executive officers is found unsuitable by any such gaming regulatory authorities, or if we otherwise lose their services, we would have to find alternative candidates and may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with real estate properties owned by us may materially impair the value of those investments. As an owner of real property, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. For example, we engaged a third‐party environmental consulting firm who performed a regulatory compliance risk assessment that found that four of our properties are currently subject to active energy use benchmarking requirements due to their location. Although we do not operate or manage most of our properties, as they are subject to triple-net leases, we may be held primarily or jointly and severally liable for costs relating to the investigation and clean-up of any property from which there has been a release or threatened release of a regulated material as well as other affected properties, regardless of whether we knew of or caused the release, and to preserve claims for damages. Further, some environmental laws create a lien on a contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and the costs the government incurs in connection with such contamination. Although under the lease agreements, our tenants are required to indemnify us for certain environmental liabilities, including environmental liabilities they cause, the amount of such liabilities could exceed the financial ability of the applicable tenants or guarantors to indemnify us. In addition, the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease our properties or to borrow using our properties as collateral, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. We face risks associated with cybersecurity incidents and other significant disruptions of our information technology (IT) networks and related systems or those IT networks and systems of third parties. We use our own IT networks and related systems to access, store, transmit, and manage or support a variety of our business processes and information. We face risks associated with cybersecurity incidents and other disruptions of our IT networks and related systems, including as a result of cybersecurity attacks or intrusions over the internet, malware or ransomware, computer phishing attempts and other forms of social engineering. We have experienced cybersecurity events such as viruses and attacks on our IT systems. To date, none of these events have had a material impact on our business, operations or financial results. These and future cybersecurity incidents or other disruptions may be caused by individuals within our organization, individuals outside our organization with authorized access, or by unauthorized individuals from outside our organization. The risk of such incidents, particularly through cyber attacks or intrusions, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has generally increased due to the growing number, intensity, and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions 25 worldwide. Although we make efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our IT networks and related systems and have implemented various measures to manage these risks, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted incidents or disruptions would not be successful or damaging to our operations. A cybersecurity incident or significant disruption involving our IT networks and related systems could, among other things: (i) disrupt the proper functioning of our networks and systems; (ii) result in misstated financial reports, violations of loan covenants and/or missed reporting deadlines; (iii) lead to our inability to monitor or maintain compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements; (iv) result in unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information, which unauthorized parties could use for competitive purposes or disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful outcomes; (v) require significant management attention and resources to address or remedy any resulting damages; (vi) expose us to claims for breach of contract, damages, credits, penalties or termination of certain agreements; (vii) subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including penalties, fines and investigations; and (viii) damage our reputation among our tenants and investors. Any or all of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions with respect to, and the market price of, our common stock. Additionally, increased regulation of data collection, use, and retention practices, including self-regulation and industry standards, changes in existing laws and regulations, enactment of new laws and regulations, increased enforcement activity, and changes in the interpretation of laws, could increase our compliance and operation cost or otherwise harm our business. In the conduct of our business, we and our tenants rely on relationships with third parties, including cloud data storage and other information technology service providers, contractors, and other external business partners, for certain functions or services in support of key portions of our operations. These third-party entities are subject to similar risks relating to cybersecurity, business interruption, and systems and employee failures and an attack against such third-party service provider or partner could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we may be entitled to damages if relevant third parties fail to satisfy their security-related obligations to us, any award may be insufficient to cover our damages, or we may be unable to recover such award. There may be exceptions to our insurance coverage that result in our insurance policies not covering some or all aspects of a cybersecurity incident. Even where a cybersecurity incident is covered by our insurance, the insurance limits may not cover the costs of complete remediation and redress that may be required in the wake of a cybersecurity incident. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds our available insurance coverage, or results in changes to our insurance policies (including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements), could have an adverse effect on us. In addition, we cannot be sure that our existing insurance coverage and coverage for errors and omissions will continue to be available on acceptable terms or that our insurers will not deny coverage for any future claim. Properties within our portfolio are, and properties that we may acquire in the future are likely to be, operated and promoted under certain trademarks and brand names that we do not own. The brands under which our properties are operated are trademarks of their respective owners. In addition, properties that we may acquire in the future may be operated and promoted under these same trademarks and brand names, or under different trademarks and brand names we do not, or will not, own. During the term that our properties are managed by our tenants, we will be reliant on our tenants to maintain and protect the trademarks, brand names and other licensed intellectual property used in the operation or promotion of the leased properties. Operation of the leased properties, as well as our business and financial condition, could be adversely impacted by infringement, invalidation, unauthorized use or litigation affecting any such intellectual property. Moreover, if any of our properties are rebranded unsuccessfully, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects, as such properties may not enjoy comparable recognition or status under a different brand. A transition of management away from one of our tenants could also affect such property’s overall strategy and financial performance, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 26 If our separation from CEOC, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, CEOC could be subject to significant tax liabilities and in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify CEOC for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the Tax Matters Agreement. In connection with our separation from CEOC in 2017, the IRS issued a private letter ruling with respect to certain relevant issues, including relating to the separation and certain related transactions as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under certain provisions of the Code. The IRS ruling does not address certain requirements for tax-free treatment of the separation. CEOC received from its tax advisors a tax opinion substantially to the effect that, with respect to such requirements on which the IRS did not rule, such requirements should be satisfied. The IRS ruling and the tax opinion that CEOC received relied on (among other things) certain representations, assumptions and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, and the IRS ruling, and the opinion would not be valid if such representations, assumptions and undertakings were incorrect in any material respect. Notwithstanding the IRS ruling and tax opinion, the IRS could determine the separation should be treated as a taxable transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes if it determines any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the IRS ruling are false or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the IRS ruling. If the reorganization fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, in general, CEOC would be subject to tax as if it had sold our assets to us in a taxable sale for their fair market value, and CEOC’s creditors who received shares of our common stock pursuant to the Plan of Reorganization would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution in respect of their claims equal to the fair market value of such shares. Under the Tax Matters Agreement that we entered into with Caesars, we generally are required to indemnify Caesars against any tax resulting from the separation to the extent that such tax resulted from certain of our representations or undertakings being incorrect or violated. Our indemnification obligations to Caesars are not limited by any maximum amount. As a result, if we are required to indemnify Caesars or such other persons under the circumstances set forth in the Tax Matters Agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. The market price and trading volume of shares of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the stock markets generally may experience significant volatility, often unrelated to the operating performance of the individual companies whose securities are publicly traded. The trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. We cannot make assurances that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. If the market price or trading volume of our common stock declines, you may be unable to resell your shares at a profit, or at all. Some of the factors, many of which are beyond our control, that could negatively affect the market price of our common stock or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations or distributions; • the annual yield from distributions on our common stock as compared to yields on other financial instruments; • changes in our operating performance, earnings, revenues or adjusted funds from operations per share estimates; • changes in market interest rates that may cause purchasers of our shares to demand a higher yield; • changes in general economic conditions and market developments, including inflation, interest rates, supply chain disruptions, consumer confidence levels, changes in consumer spending, unemployment levels and depressed real estate prices resulting from the severity and duration of any downturn in the United States or global economy; • publication of research reports about us, our tenants or the real estate or gaming industries; • adverse developments involving our tenants; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • market reaction to any additional capital we raise in the future, including availability and attractiveness of long-term debt financing in connection with future acquisitions; • our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; • our failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of future and any pending acquisitions and other transactions within the timeframe or to the extent anticipated by financial or industry analysts; • additions or departures of key personnel; 27 • equity issuances by us, or future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by our existing or future stockholders, or the perception that such issuances or future sales may occur; • strategic actions taken by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestments, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; • speculation in the press or investment community about us, our tenants, our industry or the economy in general; • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business and operations or the gaming industry; • changes in tax or accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • failure to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes; and • the occurrence of any of the other risk factors presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other SEC filings. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness and Financing We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, and expect to incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our indebtedness exposes us to the risk of default under our debt obligations, increases the risks associated with a downturn in our business or in the businesses of our tenants, and requires us to use a significant portion of our cash to service our debt obligations. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness and debt service requirements. As of December 31, 2023, we had approximately $17.1 billion in long-term indebtedness, and we also had $2.3 billion of available capacity to borrow under the Revolving Credit Facility (with the option to increase the revolving loan commitments by up to $1.0 billion in the aggregate to the extent that any one or more lenders (from the syndicate or otherwise) agree to provide such additional credit extensions). Payments of principal and interest under this indebtedness, or any other instruments governing debt we may incur in the future, may leave us with insufficient cash resources to pursue our business and growth strategies or to pay the distributions currently contemplated or necessary to qualify or maintain qualification as a REIT. Our substantial outstanding indebtedness or future indebtedness, and the limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements, could have other significant adverse consequences, including the following: • our cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments; • our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments may be increased; • we may be required to use a significant portion of our cash flow from operations for the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and we may be unable to borrow additional funds as needed or on favorable terms, which could, among other things, adversely affect our ability to capitalize upon emerging acquisition opportunities, including exercising our rights of first refusal, right of first offer and call rights described herein, or fund future working capital, operational and other corporate needs; • we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of our original indebtedness; • we may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms or at a loss; • the ability of VICI LP to distribute cash to us may be limited or prohibited, which would materially and adversely affect our ability to make distributions on our common stock; • we may fail to comply with the covenants in our loan documents, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate payment of outstanding loans; and • we may be unable to hedge floating rate debt, counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under our hedge agreements and these agreements may not effectively hedge interest rate fluctuation risk. If any one of these events were to occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, cash flows and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations, pay distributions to our stockholders or refinancing existing or future indebtedness could be materially and adversely affected. Interest rates have increased, and may continue to do so, increasing our overall interest rate expense, which could adversely affect our stock price. Interest rates have increased from historic lows, and the extent to which interest rates continue to rise or the duration of such heightened interest rates are uncertain. The rise in interest rates has increased our overall interest rate expense and may, along with any future interest rate increases, have an adverse impact on our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. In addition, in an elevated interest rate environment, new debt, whether fixed or variable, is likely to be more expensive than debt that is being refinanced, which could, among other things, make the financing of any acquisition or investment more expensive, 28 and we may be unable to incur new debt or replace maturing debt with new debt at equal or better interest rates. In the event we replace or refinance maturing debt with new debt at higher interest rates, our overall interest rate expense will increase.  This risk can be managed or mitigated by utilizing interest rate protection products including interest rate swaps and forward starting interest rate swaps. Although we have previously used and currently use such products with respect to a portion of our indebtedness, there is no assurance that we will use such products in the future, we will utilize any of these products effectively or that such products will be available to us. Further, the dividend yield on our common stock (i.e., the annualized distributions per share of our common stock as a percentage of the market price per share of our common stock) will influence the market price of such common stock. Thus, sustained increases in market interest rates may lead prospective purchasers of our common stock to expect a higher dividend yield. In addition, elevated interest rates would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease our cash available for distribution. Thus, elevated market interest rates could also cause the market price of shares of our common stock to decline. Disruption in the equity capital and credit markets may adversely affect our ability to access external funding for our growth and ongoing debt service requirements. We are reliant on the capital and credit markets to finance our growth because we are required to distribute to our stockholders an amount equal to at least 90% of our taxable income (other than net capital gains) each year in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT. We expect to issue additional equity and incur additional indebtedness in the future to finance new asset acquisitions or investments or investments in our existing properties through our Partner Property Growth Fund, refinance our existing indebtedness, or for general corporate or other purposes. Our access to financing (both equity and debt) on favorable terms, or at all, depends on a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including general economic conditions, such as interest rate changes, inflation, economic recessions, contractions or slowdowns, our credit ratings and outlook, the willingness of lending institutions and other debt investors to grant credit to us and general conditions in the capital and credit markets, including price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions. In addition, when markets are volatile, access to capital and credit markets could be disrupted over an extended period of time and financial institutions may not have the available capital to meet their previous commitments to us under the Revolving Credit Facility. The failure of financial institutions to meet their funding commitments to us could have a material adverse effect on us, including as a result of making it difficult to obtain additional financing, or financing on favorable terms, that we may need for future growth and/or to refinance our existing indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the financing we need for the future growth of our business or to meet our debt service requirements (including refinancing our existing indebtedness), or that a sufficient amount of financing will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. Adverse changes in our credit ratings may affect our borrowing terms and capacity. Our outstanding debt is periodically rated by nationally recognized credit rating agencies. Two out of the three national credit rating agencies currently rate VICI as investment grade. The credit ratings are based upon our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial condition, and other factors viewed by the credit rating agencies as relevant to both our industry and the economic outlook. Our credit rating may affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financing we obtain, and there is no guarantee that we will realize increased access to capital or improved terms with respect to any financing we obtain as a result of credit rating upgrades (or that we will be able to maintain such upgraded credit ratings). Because we rely in part on debt financing to fund growth, an adverse change in our credit ratings, including actual changes and changes in outlook, or even the initiation of a review of our credit ratings that could result in an adverse change, could have a material adverse effect on us. A breach or default of covenants in our debt agreements could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain customary covenants, including restrictions on our ability to incur additional debt, sell certain asset and restrict certain payments, among other things. In addition, we are required to comply with certain financial maintenance covenants. A breach of any of these covenants or covenants under any other agreements governing our indebtedness could result in an event of default. Cross-default provisions in our debt agreements could cause an event of default under one debt agreement to trigger an event of default under our other debt agreements. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our debt agreements, our debt holders could elect to declare all outstanding debt under such agreements to be immediately due and payable. Defaults under our debt instruments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. 29 We have engaged and may engage in hedging or other derivative transactions that may limit gains or result in losses. We use derivatives from time to time to hedge certain of our liabilities, which may include anticipated liabilities and foreign currency risk. Although the counterparties of these arrangements are major financial institutions, we are exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by the counterparties. This has certain risks, including losses on a hedge position, which may reduce the return on our investments. Such losses may exceed the amount invested in such instruments. In addition, counterparties to a hedging arrangement could default on their obligations. We may have to pay certain costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs, related to hedging transactions. Any such reduced gains or losses from these derivatives may adversely affect our business or financial condition. Future incurrences of debt, which would be senior to our shares of common stock upon liquidation, and/or issuance of preferred equity securities, which may be senior to our shares of common stock for purposes of distributions or upon liquidation, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may in the future attempt to increase our capital resources by incurring additional debt, including medium-term notes, trust preferred securities and senior or subordinated notes, or issuing preferred shares. If a liquidation event were to occur, holders of our debt securities and preferred shares and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our shares of common stock. In addition, our preferred stock, if issued, would likely limit our ability to make liquidating or other distributions to the holders of shares of our common stock under certain circumstances. Any future common stock offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of shares of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. Since our decision to issue debt securities, incur other forms of indebtedness or to issue additional common stock or preferred stock in the future will depend on future developments, market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, nature or success of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our issuing senior securities, incurring other senior obligations or issuing additional common stock in the future, which may reduce the market price of shares of our common stock, reduce cash available for distribution to common stockholders or dilute their stockholdings in us. Risks Related to our Status as a REIT We may incur adverse tax consequences if we have failed or fail, to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Code generally requires that a REIT distribute annually to its stockholders at least 90% of its REIT taxable income (with certain adjustments), determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gains, and that it pay tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that it distributes annually less than 100% of its REIT taxable income, including capital gains. In addition, a REIT is required to pay a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which the distributions it makes in a calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of its ordinary income, 95% of its capital gain net income and 100% of its undistributed income from prior years. As a result, in order to avoid or otherwise minimize current entity level U.S. federal income taxes, a substantial portion of our cash flow after operating expenses and debt service will be required to be distributed to our stockholders. We have operated, and intend to continue to operate, in a manner that we believe allows us to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the Code. We have not requested or plan to request a ruling from the IRS that we qualify as a REIT. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable treasury regulations that have been promulgated under the Code is greater in the case of a REIT that holds its assets through a partnership. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy a number of requirements, including requirements regarding the ownership of our stock and the composition of our gross income and assets. Also, a REIT must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its net taxable income, excluding any net capital gains. If we lose our REIT status, or are determined to have lost our REIT status in a prior year, such loss or failure would have a material and adverse effect on us. Additionally, we will face material tax consequences that would substantially reduce our cash available for distribution, including cash available to pay dividends to our stockholders, because: • we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax and state and local income taxes on our net income at regular corporate rates for the years we did not qualify for taxation as a REIT (and, for such years, would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to stockholders in computing our taxable income); 30 • for tax years beginning after December 31, 2022, we would possibly also be subject to certain taxes enacted by the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 that are applicable to non-REIT corporations, including the corporate alternative minimum tax and the nondeductible one percent excise tax on certain stock repurchases; • unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, neither we nor any “successor” corporation, trust or association could elect to be taxed as a REIT until the fifth taxable year following the year during which we were disqualified; • if we were to re-elect REIT status, we would have to distribute all earnings and profits from non-REIT years before the end of the first new REIT taxable year; and • for the five years following re-election of REIT status, upon a taxable disposition of an asset owned as of such re-election, we would be subject to corporate-level tax with respect to any built-in gain inherent in such asset at the time of re-election. Even if we retain our REIT status, if MGP, which merged into our existing subsidiary pursuant to the MGP Transactions, loses its REIT status for a taxable year ending on or before the effective time of the MGP Transactions, we would be subject to adverse tax consequences that would substantially reduce our cash available for distribution, including cash available to pay dividends to our stockholders, because: • unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, VICI, as the “successor” by merger to MGP for U.S. federal income tax purposes, could not elect to be taxed as a REIT until the fifth taxable year following the year during which MGP was disqualified; • VICI, as the successor by merger to MGP, would be subject to any corporate income tax liabilities of MGP, including penalties and interest; • assuming that we otherwise maintained our REIT qualification, we would be subject to corporate-level tax on the built-in gain in each asset of MGP existing at the time of the MGP Transactions if we were to dispose of such MGP asset during the five-year period following the MGP Transactions; and • assuming that we otherwise maintained our REIT qualification, we would succeed to any earnings and profits accumulated by MGP for taxable periods that it did not qualify as a REIT, and we would have to pay a special dividend and/or employ applicable deficiency dividend procedures (including interest payments to the IRS) to eliminate such earnings and profits (or if we do not timely distribute those earnings and profits, we could fail to qualify as a REIT). In addition, if there is an adjustment to MGP’s taxable income or dividends paid deductions, we could elect to use the deficiency dividend procedure in order to maintain MGP’s REIT status. That deficiency dividend procedure could require us to make significant distributions to our stockholders and to pay significant interest to the IRS. As a result of these factors, our failure or MGP’s failure (before the MGP Transactions) to qualify as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would materially adversely affect the market value of our common stock. Qualification to be taxed as a REIT involves highly technical and complex provisions of the Code, and violations of these provisions could jeopardize our REIT qualification. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which only limited judicial and administrative authorities exist. Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize our REIT qualification. Our qualification as a REIT depends on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. In addition, our ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify as a REIT may depend in part on the actions of third parties over which we have no control or only limited influence, including in cases where we own an equity interest in an entity that is classified as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws, including the enactment of certain tax reform measures, could have a material and adverse effect on us. U.S. federal income tax laws governing REITs and other corporations and the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended at any time, potentially with retroactive effect. Changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws, including the possibility of major tax legislation, could have a material and adverse effect on us or our stockholders. We cannot predict whether, when, to what extent or with what effective dates new U.S. federal tax laws, regulations, interpretations or rulings will be issued. Prospective investors are urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the effect of potential changes to the U.S. federal tax laws on an investment in our common stock. 31 We could fail to qualify to be taxed as a REIT if income we receive from our tenants is not treated as qualifying income. Under applicable provisions of the Code, we will not be treated as a REIT unless we satisfy various requirements, including requirements relating to the sources of our gross income. The complexity of these provisions of the Code and of the applicable treasury regulations that have been promulgated under the Code is greater in the case of a REIT such as us that holds its assets directly or indirectly through a partnership. Rents received or accrued by us from our tenants will not be treated as qualifying rent for purposes of these requirements if the leases are not respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes and instead are treated as service contracts, joint ventures, financings or some other type of arrangement. If some or all of our leases are not respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we may fail to qualify to be taxed as a REIT. Furthermore, our qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon our analysis of the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we may not obtain independent appraisals. In addition, subject to certain exceptions, rents received or accrued by us from any tenant (or affiliated tenants) will not be treated as qualifying rent for purposes of these requirements if we (or an actual or constructive owner of 10% or more of our stock) actually or constructively owns 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of such tenant’s stock entitled to vote or 10% or more of the total value of all classes of such tenant’s stock. Our charter provides restrictions on ownership and transfer of our shares of stock, including restrictions on such ownership or transfer that would cause the rents received or accrued by us from tenants to be treated as non-qualifying rent for purposes of the REIT gross income requirements. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that such restrictions will be effective in ensuring that rents received or accrued by us from tenants will not be treated as qualifying rent for purposes of REIT qualification requirements. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan. We generally must distribute annually to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (with certain adjustments), determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gains, in order for us to qualify as a REIT so that U.S. federal corporate income tax does not apply to our earnings that we distribute. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement and qualify for taxation as a REIT but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and including any net capital gains, we will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on any undistributed portion of such taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we distribute to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under U.S. federal tax laws. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the Code and to avoid or otherwise minimize paying entity level federal or excise tax (other than at any taxable REIT subsidiary of ours). We may generate taxable income greater than our income for financial reporting purposes prepared in accordance with GAAP. Further, we may generate taxable income greater than our cash flow from operations after operating expenses and debt service as a result of differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash or the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. In order to avoid or otherwise minimize current entity level U.S. federal income taxes, we will generally be required to distribute sufficient cash flow after operating expenses and debt service payments to satisfy the REIT distribution requirements. While we intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the Code, we may not have sufficient liquidity to meet the REIT distribution requirements. If our cash flow is insufficient to satisfy the REIT distribution requirements, we could be required to raise capital on unfavorable terms, sell assets at disadvantageous prices, distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions or issue dividends in the form of shares of our common stock to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our REIT taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid or otherwise minimize corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or change the value of our equity. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income and state or local income, property and transfer taxes. For example, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, we currently hold and expect in the future to hold some of our assets and conduct certain of our activities through one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries or other subsidiary corporations that will be subject to federal, state, and local corporate-level income taxes as regular C corporations (i.e., corporations generally subject to corporate-level income tax under Subchapter C of Chapter 1 the Code). In addition, we may incur a 100% excise tax on transactions with a taxable REIT subsidiary if they are not conducted on an arm’s length basis. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. 32 Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to liquidate or forgo otherwise attractive opportunities and limit our expansion opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, our sources of income, the nature of our investments in real estate and related assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may also be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. As a REIT, we must ensure that, at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and “real estate assets” (as defined in the Code), including certain mortgage loans and securities. The remainder of our investments (other than government securities, qualified real estate assets and securities issued by a taxable REIT subsidiary) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our total assets (other than government securities, qualified real estate assets and securities issued by a taxable REIT subsidiary) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 20% of the value of our total assets can be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. In addition, not more than 25% of our total assets may be represented by debt instruments issued by publicly offered REITs that are “nonqualified” debt instruments. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate from our portfolio, or contribute to a taxable REIT subsidiary, or forgo otherwise attractive investments in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition to the asset tests set forth above, to qualify as a REIT we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may be unable to pursue investments that would be otherwise advantageous to us in order to satisfy the source-of-income or asset-diversification requirements for qualifying as a REIT. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities. The REIT provisions of the Code substantially limit our ability to hedge our assets and liabilities. Income from certain hedging transactions that we may enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets or from transactions to manage risk of currency fluctuations with respect to any item of income or gain that satisfy the REIT gross income tests (including gain from the termination of such a transaction) does not constitute “gross income” for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests that apply to REITs, provided that certain identification requirements are met. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions or fail to properly identify such transaction as a hedge, the income is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may be required to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a taxable REIT subsidiary. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because the taxable REIT subsidiary may be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates that we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in the taxable REIT subsidiary will generally not provide any tax benefit, except that such losses could theoretically be carried back or forward against past or future taxable income of the taxable REIT subsidiary. The cash available for distribution to stockholders may not be sufficient to pay dividends at expected levels, nor can we make assurances of our ability to make distributions in the future. We may use borrowed funds to make distributions. If cash available for distribution is less than the amount necessary to make cash distributions, our inability to make the expected distributions could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon various factors, including, but not limited to: our historical and projected financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and REIT taxable income, limitations contained in financing instruments, debt service requirements, operating cash inflows and outflows, including capital expenditures and acquisitions, limitations on our ability to use cash generated in one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries, if any, to fund distributions and applicable law. We may not be able to make distributions in the future. In addition, some of our distributions may include a return of capital. To the extent that we decide to make distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits in the future, such distributions would generally be considered a return of capital for federal income tax purposes to the extent of the holder’s adjusted tax basis in their shares. A return of capital is not taxable, but it has the effect of reducing the holder’s adjusted tax basis in our common stock. To the extent that such distributions exceed the adjusted tax basis of a holder’s shares, they will be treated as gain from the sale or exchange of such stock. If we borrow to fund distributions, our future interest costs would increase, thereby reducing our earnings and cash available for distribution from what they otherwise would have been. 33 For purposes of satisfying the minimum distribution requirement to qualify for and maintain REIT status, our REIT taxable income will be calculated without reference to our cash flow. Consequently, under certain circumstances, we may not have available cash to make our required distributions, and we may need to raise additional equity or debt in order to fund our intended distributions, or we may distribute a portion of our distributions in the form of our common stock or debt instruments, which could result in dilution or higher leverage, respectively. While the IRS has issued a revenue procedure indicating that certain distributions that are made partly in cash and partly in stock will be treated as taxable dividends that would satisfy that REIT annual distribution requirement and qualify for the dividends paid deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes, no assurance can be provided that we will be able to satisfy the requirements of the revenue procedure. Therefore, it is unclear whether and to what extent we will be able to make taxable dividends payable in-kind. In addition, to the extent we were to make distributions that include our common stock or debt instruments, a stockholder of ours will be required to report dividend income as a result of such distributions even though we distributed no cash or only nominal amounts of cash to such stockholder. In the event that we recognize a significant gain from cash settlement of a forward sale agreement, the U.S. federal income tax treatment of the cash that we receive in such instance is unclear and could impact our ability to meet the REIT qualification requirements. We enter into forward sale agreements from time to time and, subject to certain conditions, we have the right to elect physical, cash or net share settlement under these agreements at any time and from time to time, in part or in full. In the event that we elect to settle a forward sale agreement for cash and the settlement price is below the forward sale price, we would be entitled to receive a cash payment from the applicable forward purchaser(s). Under Section 1032 of the Code, generally, no gains and losses are recognized by a corporation in dealing in its own shares, including pursuant to a “securities futures contract,” as defined in the Code by reference to the Exchange Act. Although we believe that any amount received by us in exchange for our shares of common stock would qualify for the exemption under Section 1032 of the Code, because it is not entirely clear whether a forward sale agreement qualifies as a “securities futures contract,” the U.S. federal income tax treatment of any cash settlement payment we receive is uncertain. In the event that we recognize a significant gain from the cash settlement of a forward sale agreement, we might not be able to satisfy the gross income requirements applicable to REITs under the Code. If we were to fail to satisfy one or both of the gross income tests for any taxable year, we may nevertheless qualify as a REIT for such year if we were entitled to relief under certain provisions of the Code. If these relief provisions were inapplicable, we would not qualify to be taxed as a REIT. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure VICI is a holding company with no direct operations and relies on distributions received from VICI OP to make distributions to its stockholders. VICI is a holding company and conducts its operations through direct and indirect subsidiaries, including VICI OP and VICI Golf. VICI does not have, apart from the units that it owns in VICI OP and VICI Golf, any independent operations. As a result, VICI relies on distributions from VICI OP to make any distributions to its stockholders it might declare on its common stock and to meet any of its obligations, including any tax liability on taxable income allocated to it from VICI OP (which might not be able to make distributions to VICI equal to the tax on such allocated taxable income). In turn, the ability of subsidiaries of VICI OP to make distributions to VICI OP, and therefore, the ability of VICI OP to make distributions to VICI, depends on the operating results of these subsidiaries and VICI OP and on the terms of any financing arrangements they have entered into. In addition, because VICI is a holding company, claims of common stockholders of VICI are structurally subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and other obligations (whether or not for borrowed money) and any preferred equity of VICI OP and its subsidiaries. Therefore, in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, VICI’s assets and those of VICI OP and its subsidiaries will be available to satisfy the claims of VICI common stockholders only after all of VICI’s, VICI OP’s and its subsidiaries’ liabilities and other obligations and any preferred equity of any of them have been paid in full. VICI OP may, in connection with its acquisition of additional properties or otherwise, issue additional common units or preferred units to third parties. Such issuances would reduce VICI’s ownership in VICI OP. Because stockholders of VICI do not directly own common units or preferred units of VICI OP, they do not have any voting rights with respect to any such issuances or other partnership level activities of VICI OP. 34 Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent an acquisition of our common stock or a change in control. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions, the exercise or existence of which could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our stockholders or otherwise be in their best interests, including the following: • Our charter contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our stock. In order for us to qualify as a REIT, no more than 50% of the value of outstanding shares of our stock may be owned, beneficially or constructively, by five or fewer individuals (or certain other persons) at any time during the last half of each taxable year (“closely held”). Subject to certain exceptions, our charter prohibits any stockholder from owning beneficially or constructively, with respect to any class or series of our capital stock, more than 9.8% (in value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the aggregate of the outstanding shares of such class or series of our capital stock. The constructive ownership rules under the Code are complex and may cause the outstanding stock owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. As a result, the acquisition of 9.8% or less of the outstanding shares of a class or series of our stock by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity or another individual or entity to own constructively in excess of the relevant ownership limits. Among other restrictions on ownership and transfer of shares, our charter also prohibits any person from owning shares of our stock that would result in our being “closely held” under Section 856(h) of the Code or otherwise cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our common stock or of any of our other capital stock in violation of these restrictions may result in the shares being automatically transferred to a charitable trust or may be void. Our charter provides that our board may grant exceptions to the 9.8% ownership limit, subject in each case to certain initial and ongoing conditions designed to protect our status as a REIT. These ownership limits may prevent a third-party from acquiring control of us if our Board of Directors does not grant an exemption from the ownership limits, even if our stockholders believe the change in control is in their best interests. An exemption from the 9.8% ownership limit has previously been granted to certain stockholders, and our board may in the future provide exceptions to the ownership limit for other stockholders, subject to the aforementioned initial and ongoing conditions designed to protect our status as a REIT. • Our Board of Directors has the power to cause us to issue and authorize additional shares of our capital stock without stockholder approval. Our charter authorizes us to issue authorized but unissued shares of common or preferred stock in addition to the shares of common stock issued and outstanding. In addition, our Board of Directors may, without stockholder approval, amend our charter to increase the aggregate number of our shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue and classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common or preferred stock and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our Board of Directors may establish a class or series of shares of common or preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our shares of common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Certain provisions of Maryland law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us. Certain provisions of the MGCL may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from acquiring us or of impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our common stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price of such shares, including: • “business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, (a) prohibit certain business combinations between an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding shares of voting stock or an affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our then outstanding shares of our common stock) or an affiliate of any interested stockholder and us for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and (b) thereafter impose two super-majority stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and • “control share” provisions that provide that holders of “control shares” of our company (defined as voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned or controlled by the acquirer (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquirer to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights with respect to “control shares” except to the extent approved by our 35 stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all votes entitled to be cast by the acquirer of control shares, and by any of our officers and employees who are also our directors. Our charter provides that, notwithstanding any other provision of our charter or our bylaws, the Maryland Business Combination Act (Title 3, Subtitle 6 of the MGCL) does not apply to any business combination between us and any interested stockholder or any affiliate of any interested stockholder of ours and that we expressly elect not to be governed by the provisions of Section 3-602 of the MGCL in whole or in part. Pursuant to the MGCL, our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act any and all acquisitions by any person of shares of our stock. There can be no assurance that any of these provisions of our charter or bylaws will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. Additionally, provisions of Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL permit a Maryland corporation such as the Company, by action of its board of directors and without stockholder approval and regardless of what is provided in the charter or bylaws, to elect to avail itself of certain takeover defenses, such as a classified board, unless the charter or a resolution adopted by the board of directors prohibits such election. Our charter provides that we are prohibited from making any such election unless first approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of a majority of all votes entitled to be cast on the matter.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations of VICI Properties Inc. and VICI Properties L.P. for the year ended December 31, 2023 should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto and other financial information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis or set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including information with respect to our business and growth strategies, statements regarding the industry outlook and our expectations regarding the future performance of our business contained herein are forward-looking statements. See “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” You should also review the section in Item 1A. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by such forward-looking statements . OVERVIEW We are an owner and acquirer of experiential real estate assets across leading gaming, hospitality, entertainment and leisure destinations. Our geographically diverse portfolio currently consists of 93 experiential assets consisting of 54 gaming properties and 39 other experiential properties across the United States and Canada. Our portfolio also includes certain real estate debt investments, most of which we have originated for strategic reasons in connection with transactions that either do or may provide the potential to convert our investment into the ownership of certain of the underlying real estate in the future. In addition, we own approximately 33 acres of undeveloped or underdeveloped land on and adjacent to the Las Vegas Strip that is leased to Caesars, which we may look to monetize as appropriate. We also own four championship golf courses located near certain of our properties, two of which are in close proximity to the Las Vegas Strip. We conduct our operations as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We conduct our real property business through our operating partnership, VICI OP, and our golf course business through a TRS, VICI Golf. For additional information with respect to our business and operations, refer to . Key 2023 Highlights Operating Results • Collected 100% of rent in cash. • Total revenues increased 38.9% year-over-year to $3.6 billion. • Net income attributable to common stockholders increased 124.9% year-over-year to $2.5 billion, and net income attributable to common stockholders per diluted share increased 94.8% to $2.47, primarily due to the impact of our CECL allowance in the prior year and the timing of our transaction activity. • AFFO increased 29.1% year-over-year to $2.2 billion and AFFO per diluted share increased 11.8% to $2.15. Significant Achievements • Invested over $4.1 billion to acquire 51 properties and added $291.5 million in annualized rent to our portfolio. ◦ Made first international property investments through the acquisition of eight gaming assets in Canada. ◦ Acquired 39 other experiential properties, representing our inaugural investments in the sports and family entertainment categories. • Originated six debt investments totaling $698.2 million of commitments. ◦ Made first international loan investments in connection with our partnership with Cabot, in Saint Lucia and Scotland. ◦ Funded new and existing loan commitments totaling $959.1 million. • Announced an increase in our quarterly cash dividend to $0.415 per share (or $1.66 per share on an annualized basis) in the third quarter of 2023, representing a 6.4% increase compared to our previous quarterly dividend. • Completed a 30,302,500 share forward equity offering with an aggregate offering value of $1.0 billion, which was settled in each of April, July and October 2023 for aggregate net proceeds of $960.5 million. • Sold 21,365,397 forward shares under our ATM program during the year with an aggregate offering value of $643.0 million and settled 29,788,250 forward shares outstanding under our ATM program for aggregate net proceeds of $945.7 million. 40 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACTIVITIES Acquisition and Leasing Activity The following table summarizes our acquisition and leasing activity (each as defined in the column titled “Transaction”) for the year ended December 31, 2023: ____________________ (1) Investment represents acquisition of the existing leasehold interest associated with Chelsea Piers from Chelsea Piers L.P. in a sale-leaseback transaction. The $71.5 million outstanding Chelsea Piers loan was repaid in full and terminated in connection with the closing of the acquisition. (2) Amount represents USD equivalent to C$221.7 million investment based on the exchange rate at the time of closing. (3) Amount represents USD equivalent to C$17.3 million rent based on the exchange rate at the time of closing. (4) Simultaneous with the entrance into the CNE Gold Strike Lease, we entered into an amendment to the MGM Master Lease in order to account for MGM’s divestiture of the operations of Gold Strike and to reduce the annual base rent by $40.0 million. (5) Amount includes the assumption of BREIT’s $1,497.0 million pro rata share of an aggregate $3.0 billion of property-level debt, which matures in 2032 and bears interest at a fixed rate of 3.558% per annum through March 2030. (6) Amount represents our pro-rata share of the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay Lease which had total annual rent of $303.8 million upon closing. (7) Amount represents USD equivalent to C$271.9 million investment based on the exchange rate at the time of closing. (8) Amount represents USD equivalent to C$21.8 million rent based on the exchange rate at the time of closing. Real Estate Debt Investment Activity The following table summarizes our real estate debt investment activity (each as defined in the column titled “Real Estate Debt Investment”) for the year ended December 31, 2023: ____________________ (1) Amount represents USD equivalent to £9.0 million based on the exchange rate at the time of closing. 41 (2) In connection with the Canyon Ranch Lenox and Tucson Loan and Canyon Ranch Preferred Equity Investment, we entered into (i) a call right agreement for Canyon Ranch Tucson and Canyon Ranch Lenox, and (ii) a right of first financing agreement to serve as the real estate capital financing partner for Canyon Ranch with respect to the acquisition, build-out and redevelopment of future wellness resorts. If the call right(s) are exercised, Canyon Ranch would continue to operate the applicable wellness resort(s) subject to a long-term triple net master lease with the Company. Refer to for further details. Financing and Capital Markets Activity • January 2023 Offering. On January 12, 2023, we completed a primary offering of 30,302,500 shares of common stock (inclusive of 3,952,500 shares sold pursuant to the exercise in full of the underwriters’ option to purchase additional common stock) at a public offering price of $33.00 per share for an aggregate offering value of $1.0 billion, resulting in net proceeds, after deduction of the underwriting discount and expenses, of $964.4 million. The shares are subject to forward sale agreements (the “January 2023 Forward Sale Agreements”), which required settlement by January 16, 2024. We did not initially receive any proceeds from the sale of the shares of common stock in the offering, which were sold to the underwriters by the forward purchasers or their respective affiliates. In April, July, August and October 2023, we physically settled the January 2023 Forward Sale Agreements (as defined in ) in exchange for total net proceeds of approximately $960.5 million. • At-The-Market Offering Programs. During the year ended December 31, 2023, we sold an aggregate of 21,365,397 shares under the ATM Program (as defined in ), all of which were subject to forward sale agreements, for estimated aggregate net value of $634.6 million based on the initial forward sale price with respect to each forward sale agreement. We did not initially receive any proceeds from the sale of the shares of common stock under the ATM Program, which were sold to the underwriters by the forward purchasers or their respective affiliates. In October 2023, we physically settled all the then outstanding forward shares issued under the ATM Program in exchange for total net proceeds of approximately $249.1 million. • Entry into Forward-Starting Interest Rate Swap Agreements. During the year ended December 31, 2023, we entered into seven forward-starting interest rate swap agreements with an aggregate notional amount of $500.0 million intended to reduce the variability in the forecasted interest expense related to the fixed-rate debt we expect to refinance. KEY TRENDS THAT MAY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS Tenant and Industry Performance Our tenants and the guarantors of their respective obligations, as applicable, under our lease agreements are leading gaming and experiential operators across the United States, Canada and abroad. Rental payments under our lease agreements comprise, and are expected to continue to comprise, a substantial majority of our revenues. Accordingly, we are dependent on, among other things, our tenants’ and, as applicable, their respective guarantors’, financial performance, the performance of the gaming and other experiential industries and the health of the economies in the areas where our properties are located for the foreseeable future, and an event that has a material adverse effect on any of our tenant’s business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or prospects could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. In addition, the financial performance of our tenants and their respective guarantors also has a direct impact on our financial results in a given reporting period due to the impact of ASC 326 “Credit Losses” (“ASC 326”), which requires us to estimate and record non-cash expected credit losses related to our investments, including changes on a quarterly basis, that are recorded in our Statement of Operations and impact our reported net income. The change in non-cash allowance for credit losses for a given period is dependent upon, among other things, our tenants’ and guarantors’ financial performance. For more information regarding ASC 326, refer to included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Business Strategy Our business prospects and future growth will be significantly influenced by the success of our business strategy, and the timing, availability and terms of financing of any acquisitions and investments that we may complete, as well as broader macroeconomic and other conditions that affect our tenants’ operating and financial performance, including those described herein. Further, the pricing of any acquisitions or other investments we may consummate and the terms of any leases that we may enter into will significantly impact our future results. Competition to enter into transactions with attractive properties and desirable tenants is intense, and we can provide no assurance that any future acquisitions, investments or leases will be on terms as favorable to us as those relating to recent or historical transactions. 42 Impact of the Macroeconomic Environment We anticipate that we will finance our future growth with a combination of debt and equity, although no assurance can be given that we will be able to issue equity and/or debt in such amounts on favorable terms, or at all, or that we would not determine to incur more debt on a relative basis at the relevant time due to market conditions or otherwise. M acroeconomic volatility has introduced significant uncertainty and heightened risk for businesses, including us and our tenants, including the impact of heightened interest rates, inflation, threat of recession and increased cost of capital. Our tenants also face additional challenges, including potential changes in consumer confidence levels, behavior and spending and increased operational expenses, such as with respect to labor or energy costs. As a triple-net lessor, increased operational expenses at our leased properties are borne by our tenants and do not directly impact their rent obligations (other than with respect to underlying inflation as applied to the CPI-based escalators described below) or other obligations under our lease agreements. However, the current macroeconomic environment, including heightened interest rates and market volatility, impacts our business in certain respects, such as by increasing interest expense with respect to any borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility and future refinancing of upcoming debt maturities, volatility of our share price with respect to sales of common stock, and, with respect to potential transactions, evaluating asset and property values in discussions with potential counterparties and obtaining transaction financing on attractive terms, all of which could increase our cost of capital and negatively impact our growth prospects. With respect to our lease agreements, which generally provide for annual rent escalation based on a specified percentage increase and/or increases in CPI, we expect that currently elevated inflation levels will result in additional rent increases over time under our CPI-based lease provisions (subject to any applicable caps or periods in which such provisions do not apply). However, these rent increases may not match increasing inflation during periods when inflation rates are greater than the applicable CPI-based caps. Overall Implications of Such Material Trends on Our Business As a triple-net lessor, we believe we are generally in a strong creditor position and structurally insulated from operational and performance impacts of our tenants, both positive and negative. However, the full extent to which the trends set forth herein adversely affect our tenants and/or ultimately impact us depends on future developments that cannot be predicted with confidence, including our tenants’ financial performance, the direct and indirect effects of such trends discussed herein (including among other things, heightened interest rates, inflation, economic recessions, consumer confidence levels and general conditions in the capital and credit markets) and the impact of any future measures taken in response to such trends on our tenants. For more information, refer to “ ” included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 43 DISCUSSION OF OPERATING RESULTS Results of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022 44 Revenue For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, our revenue was comprised of the following items: Leasing Revenue The following table details the components of our income from sales-type lease and lease financing receivables: ____________________ (1) Represents our asset acquisitions structured as sale leaseback transactions. In accordance with ASC 842, since the lease agreements were determined to meet the definition of a sales-type lease and control of the asset is not considered to have transferred to us, such lease agreements are accounted for as financings under ASC 310. (2) Amounts represent the non-cash adjustment to income from sales-type leases and lease financing receivables in order to recognize income on an effective interest basis at a constant rate of return over the term of the leases. Leasing revenue is generated from rent from our lease agreements. Total leasing revenue increased $959.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. Total contractual leasing revenue increased $781.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. The increases were primarily driven by the addition to our portfolio of the Venetian Lease in February 2022, the MGM Master Lease in April 2022, the Foundation Master Lease in December 2022, the PURE Master Lease and the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay Lease in January 2023, the Rocky Gap Casino component of the Century Master Lease in July 2023 and the Century Canadian Portfolio component of the Century Master Lease in September 2023, the Bowlero Master Lease in October 2023 and the Chelsea Piers Lease in December 2023, as well as the annual rent escalators from certain of our other lease agreements. Income From Loans Income from loans increased $34.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was driven by the origination and subsequent funding, as applicable, of our debt investments and the related interest income from the increased principal balances outstanding under such debt investments, partially offset by the full repayment of the $400.0 million Caesars Forum Convention Center mortgage loan in May 2023 and the $71.5 million Chelsea Piers loan in December 2023. Other Income Other income increased $13.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was driven primarily by the additional income as a result of certain ground and use sub-leases assumed in connection with our property transactions and acquisitions, including the acquisition of the Venetian Resort in February 2022 (“Venetian Acquisition”), the MGP Transactions in April 2022, the Rocky Gap Casino Acquisition in July 2023 and the Chelsea Piers Sale-Leaseback Transaction in December 2023 (each as defined in ). We determined we are the primary obligor of the respective ground and use leases and, accordingly, record the related income and expense on a gross basis on our Income Statement. The lease agreements require our tenants to cover all costs associated with such ground and use sub-leases and provide for their direct payment to the primary landlord. 45 Operating Expenses For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, our operating expenses were comprised of the following items: General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses increased $11.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in compensation, including stock-based compensation and the addition of new employees to the corporate team and additional expenses related to the significant growth of our business in 2023. Other Expenses Other expenses increased $13.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was driven primarily by the additional expense as a result of certain ground and use sub-leases assumed in connection with our property transactions and acquisitions, including the acquisition of the Venetian Resort in February 2022 (“Venetian Acquisition”), the MGP Transactions (as defined in ) in April 2022, the Rocky Gap Casino Acquisition in July 2023 and the Chelsea Piers Sale-Leaseback Transaction in December 2023. We determined we are the primary obligor of the respective ground and use leases and, accordingly, record the related income and expense on a gross basis on our Income Statement. The lease agreements require our tenants to cover all costs associated with such ground and use sub-leases and provide for their direct payment to the primary landlord. Change in Allowance for Credit Losses Change in allowance for credit losses decreased $731.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022, primarily driven by lower initial CECL allowances recorded on our acquisition and loan origination activity. We recorded initial CECL allowances of $279.0 million on our $4.1 billion of property acquisition activity and $14.0 million on our $698.2 million of loan origination activity during year ended December 31, 2023, compared to initial CECL allowances of $540.5 million on our $21.6 billion of property acquisition activity and $33.1 million on our $1.2 billion of loan origination activity during the year ended December 31, 2022 . Further fluctuation in the change in allowance for credit losses are the result of (i) changes to the reasonable and supportable period, or R&S Period probability of default, or PD, and loss given default, LGD, of our existing tenants and their parent guarantors (as applicable) as a result of market performance and changes in the macroeconomic model used to scenario condition such inputs, (ii) changes to the long-term period PD as a result of changes in the credit ratings of our existing tenants and their parent guarantors, which are used to estimate the long-term PD and (iii) annual standard updates to the model used to estimate the CECL allowance. Refer to for further details. Transaction and Acquisition Expenses Transaction and acquisition costs decreased $14.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. Changes in transaction and acquisition expenses are related to fluctuations in (i) costs incurred for investments during the period that are not capitalizable under GAAP, and (ii) costs incurred for investments that we are no longer pursuing. Amounts for the year ended December 31, 2022 include costs incurred for the MGP Transactions and Venetian Acquisition during the period that are not capitalized under GAAP. 46 Non-Operating Income and Expenses For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, our non-operating income and expenses were comprised of the following items: Income from Unconsolidated Affiliate Income from unconsolidated affiliate during the year ended December 31, 2023 represents our 50.1% share of the income of the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV for the period from January 1, 2023 through January 8, 2023, immediately prior to the closing of the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV Interest Acquisition. Beginning on January 9, 2023, upon the closing of the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV Interest Acquisition, we consolidated the operations of the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV and, subsequently, such income is included in Income from sales-type lease on our Statement of Operations. Interest Expense Interest expense increased $278.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was primarily related to an additional $12.4 billion in notional amount of debt from the (i) issuance of the unsecured notes in April 2022, (ii) issuance of the Exchange Notes (as defined in ) in April 2022, (iii) assumption of the MGP OP Notes in April 2022, (iv) C$140.0 million, C$75.0 million and £9.0 million draws on the Revolving Credit Facility to finance the PURE Canadian Gaming Sale-Leaseback Transaction in January 2023, Century Canadian Portfolio Sale-Leaseback Transaction in September 2023 and Cabot Highlands Loan in December 2023, respectively, and (v) consolidation of $3.0 billion aggregate principal amount of CMBS debt in connection with the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV Interest Acquisition in January 2023. The increases were partially offset by certain interest expense recorded during the year ended December 31, 2022 with no corresponding expense during the year ended December 31, 2023, which included (i) the amortization of the commitment fees associated with the bridge facilities for the Venetian Acquisition and MGP Transactions and (ii) additional interest on the $600.0 million draw on the Revolving Credit Facility in February 2022 (which was repaid in full on April 29, 2022). Additionally, the weighted average annualized interest rate of our debt, net of the impact of the forward-starting interest rate swaps and treasury locks, decreased to 4.33% during the year ended December 31, 2023 from 4.39% during the year ended December 31, 2022 as a result of the lower interest rate on the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV CMBS debt, partially offset by a higher weighted average effective interest rate on the April 2022 Notes, Exchange Notes and MGP OP Notes as compared to our outstanding debt during such earlier periods. Interest Income Interest income increased $14.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was primarily driven by a significant increase in the interest rates and income earned on our excess cash and short-term investments, coupled with an overall increase in our cash on hand throughout the current year as compared to the prior year. Other Gains During the year ended December 31, 2023, we recognized a $4.5 million gain in Other gains, which primarily relates to the sale of excess land in April 2023 and foreign currency remeasurement adjustments associated with our investments in Canada and the United Kingdom. In connection with the PURE Canadian Gaming Sale-Leaseback Transaction, Century Canadian Portfolio Sale-Leaseback Transaction and Cabot Highlands Loan, we entered into intercompany debt and drew C$215.0 million and £9.0 million on the Revolving Credit Facility, which are denominated in a foreign currency and, since such debt is held at entities with USD as their functional currency, certain of the related assets and liabilities are remeasured through the Statement of Operations. There is no comparable amount during the year ended December 31, 2022, as we did not have any foreign investments or comparable land sales during such time. 47 Benefit from (Provision for) Income Taxes Benefit from (provision for) income taxes was a net income tax benefit of $6.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to a $2.9 million net income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2022. The change was primarily driven by the recognition of deferred tax benefits on our Canadian investments arising from temporary differences on our CECL allowance, partially offset by certain other temporary GAAP basis to tax basis differences. Results of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 For a comparison of our results of operations for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, see “ ” of our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, filed with the SEC on February 23, 2023 and incorporated by reference herein. RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP MEASURES We present VICI’s Funds From Operations (“FFO”), FFO per share, Adjusted Funds From Operations (“AFFO”), AFFO per share, and Adjusted EBITDA, which are not required by, or presented in accordance with, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”). These are non-GAAP financial measures and should not be construed as alternatives to net income or as an indicator of operating performance (as determined in accordance with GAAP). We believe FFO, FFO per share, AFFO, AFFO per share and Adjusted EBITDA provide a meaningful perspective of the underlying operating performance of VICI’s business. FFO is a non-GAAP financial measure that is considered a supplemental measure for the real estate industry and a supplement to GAAP measures. Consistent with the definition used by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT), we define FFO as VICI’s net income (or loss) attributable to common stockholders (computed in accordance with GAAP) excluding (i) gains (or losses) from sales of certain real estate assets, (ii) depreciation and amortization related to real estate, (iii) gains and losses from change in control, (iv) impairment write-downs of certain real estate assets and investments in entities when the impairment is directly attributable to decreases in the value of depreciable real estate held by the entity and (v) our proportionate share of such adjustments from our investment in unconsolidated affiliate. AFFO is a non-GAAP financial measure that we use as a supplemental operating measure to evaluate VICI’s performance. We calculate VICI’s AFFO by adding or subtracting from FFO non-cash leasing and financing adjustments, non-cash change in allowance for credit losses, non-cash stock-based compensation expense, transaction costs incurred in connection with the acquisition of real estate investments, amortization of debt issuance costs and original issue discount, other non-cash interest expense, non-real estate depreciation (which is comprised of the depreciation related to our golf course operations), capital expenditures (which are comprised of additions to property, plant and equipment related to our golf course operations), impairment charges related to non-depreciable real estate, gains (or losses) on debt extinguishment and interest rate swap settlements, other gains, deferred income tax benefits and expenses, other non-recurring non-cash transactions, our proportionate share of non-cash adjustments from our investment in unconsolidated affiliate (including the amortization of any basis differences) with respect to certain of the foregoing and non-cash adjustments attributable to non-controlling interest with respect to certain of the foregoing. We calculate VICI’s Adjusted EBITDA by adding or subtracting from AFFO contractual interest expense (including the impact of the forward-starting interest rate swaps and treasury locks) and interest income (collectively, interest expense, net), income tax expense and our proportionate share of such adjustments from our investment in unconsolidated affiliate. These non-GAAP financial measures: (i) do not represent VICI’s cash flow from operations as defined by GAAP; (ii) should not be considered as an alternative to VICI’s net income as a measure of operating performance or to cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities; and (iii) are not alternatives to VICI’s cash flow as a measure of liquidity. In addition, these measures should not be viewed as measures of liquidity, nor do they measure our ability to fund all of our cash needs, including our ability to make cash distributions to our stockholders, to fund capital improvements, or to make interest payments on our indebtedness. Investors are also cautioned that FFO, FFO per share, AFFO, AFFO per share and Adjusted EBITDA, as presented, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other real estate companies, including REITs, due to the fact that not all real estate companies use the same definitions. Our presentation of these measures does not replace the presentation of VICI’s financial results in accordance with GAAP. 48 Reconciliation of VICI’s Net Income to FFO, FFO per Share, AFFO, AFFO per Share and Adjusted EBITDA ____________________ (1) Represents non-cash foreign currency remeasurement adjustments and gain on sale of land. 49 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity As of December 31, 2023, our available cash and cash equivalents balance, short-term investments and capacity under our Revolving Credit Facility were as follows: ____________________ (1) In addition, the Revolving Credit Facility includes the option to increase the revolving loan commitments by up to $1.0 billion to the extent that any one or more lenders (from the syndicate or otherwise) agree to provide such additional credit extensions. (2) Assumes the physical settlement of the 13,194,739 outstanding forward shares as of December 31, 2023 under our at-the-market forward sale agreements at a forward sales price of $28.97 calculated as of December 31, 2023. (3) Subsequent to the year ended December 31, 2023, we sold a total of approximately 9.7 million shares under our at-the-market offering program at a weighted average price per share of $31.61 for an aggregate value of $305.5 million, all of which were sold subject to a forward sale agreement. After fees and other adjustments calculated in accordance with the forward sale agreement, the aggregate net value of $302.4 million yielded a net initial forward sales price per share of $31.30. Such amount is not included in the table above and we did not initially receive any proceeds from the sale of the shares of common stock in the offering, which were sold to the underwriters by the forward purchasers or their respective affiliates and remain subject to settlement in accordance with the terms of the forward sale agreement. We believe that we have sufficient liquidity to meet our material cash requirements, including our contractual obligations, debt maturities and commitments as well as our additional funding requirements, primarily through currently available cash and cash equivalents, cash received under our lease agreements, existing borrowings from banks, including our undrawn capacity under our Revolving Credit Facility, and proceeds from future issuances of debt and equity securities (including issuances under any future “at-the-market” program) for the next 12 months and in future periods. All of our lease agreements call for an initial term of between fifteen and thirty-two years with additional tenant renewal options and, along with our loans, are designed to provide us with a reliable and predictable long-term revenue stream. Our cash flows from operations and our ability to access capital resources could be adversely affected due to uncertain economic factors and volatility in the financial and credit markets, including as a result of the current inflationary environment, higher interest rates, equity market volatility, and changes in consumer behavior and spending. In particular, we can provide no assurances that our tenants will not default on their leases or fail to make full rental payments if their businesses become challenged due to, among other things, current or future adverse economic conditions. See “Overview — Impact of Material Trends on our Business” above for additional detail. In the event our tenants are unable to make all of their contractual rent payments as provided by our lease agreements, we believe we have sufficient liquidity from the other sources discussed above to meet all of our contractual obligations for a significant period of time. For more information, refer to the risk factors incorporated by reference into . Our ability to raise funds through the issuance of debt and equity securities and access to other third-party sources of capital in the future will be dependent on, among other things, general economic conditions, general market conditions for REITs and investment grade issuers, market perceptions, the trading price of our stock and uncertainties related to the macroeconomic environment. We will continue to analyze which sources of capital are most advantageous to us at any particular point in time, but financing through the capital markets may not be consistently available on terms we deem attractive, or at all. Material Cash Requirements Contractual Obligations Our short-term obligations consist primarily of regular interest payments on our debt obligations, dividends to our common stockholders, distributions to the VICI OP Unit holders, normal recurring operating expenses, recurring expenditures for corporate and administrative needs, certain lease and other contractual commitments related to our golf operations and certain non-recurring expenditures. For more information on our material contractual commitments, refer to . Our long-term obligations consist primarily of principal payments on our outstanding debt obligations and future funding commitments under our lease and loan agreements. As of December 31, 2023, we had $17.1 billion of debt obligations outstanding. We have $1.1 billion of debt that matures on May 1, 2024. For a summary of principal debt balances and their 50 maturity dates and principal terms, refer to . For a summary of our future funding commitments under our loan portfolio, refer to . Pursuant to our lease agreements, capital expenditures, insurance and taxes for our properties are the responsibility of the tenants. Minimum capital expenditure spending requirements of the tenants pursuant to our gaming lease agreements are described in . Information concerning our material contractual obligations and commitments to make future payments under contracts such as our indebtedness, future funding commitments under our loans and Partner Property Growth Fund and future contractual operating commitments (such as future lease payments under our corporate lease) are included in the following table as of December 31, 2023. Amounts in this table omit, among other things, non-contractual commitments and items such as dividends and recurring or non-recurring operating expenses and other expenditures, including acquisitions and other investments: ________________________________________ (1) Estimated interest payments on variable interest debt under our revolving credit facility are based on the CDOR and SONIA rates as of December 31, 2023. (2) Excludes ground and use leases which are paid directly by our tenants to the primary lease holder. (3) The allocation of our future funding commitments is based on construction draw schedules, commitment funding dates, expiration dates or other information, as applicable; however, we may be obligated to fund these commitments earlier than such applicable date. Additional Funding Requirements In addition to the contractual obligations and commitments set forth in the table above, we have and may enter into additional agreements that commit us to potentially acquire properties in the future, fund future property improvements or otherwise provide capital to our tenants, borrowers and other counterparties, including through our put-call agreements and Partner Property Growth Fund. As of December 31, 2023, we had $1.0 billion of potential future funding commitments under our Partner Property Growth Fund agreements, the use of which are at the sole discretion of our tenants and will be dependent upon independent decisions made by our tenants with respect to any capital improvement projects and the source of funds for such projects, as well as the total funding ultimately provided under such arrangements. 51 Cash Flow Analysis The table below summarizes our cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022: Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities increased $237.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared with the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase is primarily driven by an increase in cash rental payments from the addition of the MGM Master Lease, Foundation Master Lease, MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay Lease, PURE Master Lease, the Rocky Gap Casino and Century Canadian Portfolio component of the Century Master Lease, Bowlero Master Lease and Chelsea Piers Lease to our real estate portfolio, the annual rent escalators on our Caesars Leases and certain of our other lease agreements, the proceeds from settlement of our forward-starting derivative instruments in connection with the April 2022 Notes offering and an increase in loan interest income as a result of an increase in the principal balance of our loan portfolio. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities decreased $6,404.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared with the year ended December 31, 2022. During the year ended December 31, 2023, the primary sources and uses of cash from investing activities included: • Net payments of $1,266.9 million, including acquisition costs, in connection with the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV Interest Acquisition; • Payments for property acquisitions during the year for a total cost of $1,373.1 million, including acquisition costs, of which $1,132.0 million was classified as investments in financing receivables and $241.1 million was classified as investments sales-type lease; • Disbursements to fund investments in our loan and securities portfolio in the amount of $959.1 million; • Principal repayment of loans in the amount of $482.0 million, of which $400.0 million related to the full repayment of the Caesars Forum Convention Center mortgage loan ; • Maturities of short-term investments, net of investments of $217.3 million; • Proceeds from the sale of land of $6.2 million; • Acquisition of property and equipment costs of $4.0 million; and • Capitalized transaction costs of $1.5 million. During the year ended December 31, 2022, the primary sources and uses of cash from investing activities included: • Net payments of $4,574.5 million in relation to the closing of the MGP Transactions; • Payments for property acquisitions during the year for a total cost of $4,314.5 million, including acquisition costs, of which $296.7 million was classified as investments in financing receivables and $4,017.9 million was classified as investments sales-type lease; • Investment in short-term investments, net of maturities, of $217.3 million; • Disbursements to fund investments in our loan and securities portfolio in the amount of $193.7 million; and • Capitalized transaction costs of $7.7 million . 52 Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities decreased $5,798.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared with the year ended December 31, 2022. During the year ended December 31, 2023, the primary sources and uses of cash from financing activities included: • Net proceeds of $2,480.1 million from the issuance of an aggregate 79,065,750 shares of our common stock pursuant to the full physical settlement of certain of our forward sale agreements; • Dividend payments of $1,583.8 million; • Draws of $419.1 million in aggregate on our Revolving Credit Facility and subsequent repayment of $250.0 million on our Revolving Credit Facility; • Distributions of $28.6 million to non-controlling interests; and • Repurchase of shares of common stock for tax withholding in connection with the vesting of employee stock compensation of $5.0 million. During the year ended December 31, 2022, the primary sources and uses of cash from financing activities included: • Gross proceeds of $5,000.0 million from the April 2002 Notes offering; • Net proceeds of $3,219.1 million from the sale of an aggregate 119,000,000 shares of our common stock pursuant to the full physical settlement of certain of our forward sale agreements; • Dividend payments of $1,219.1 million; • Initial draw and repayment of $600.0 million on our Revolving Credit Facility; • Debt issuance costs of $146.2 million; • Distributions of $17.7 million to non-controlling interests; and • Repurchase of shares of common stock for tax withholding in connection with the vesting of employee stock compensation of $6.2 million. Debt For a summary of our debt obligations as of December 31, 2023, refer to . For a summary of our financing activities in 2023 refer to “Summary of Significant 2023 Activity - Financing and Capital Markets Activity” above . Covenants Our debt obligations are subject to certain customary financial and operating covenants that restrict our ability to incur additional debt, sell certain asset and restrict certain payments, among other things. In addition, these covenants are subject to a number of important exceptions and qualifications, including, with respect to the restricted payments covenant, the ability to make unlimited restricted payments to maintain our REIT status. At December 31, 2023, we were in compliance with all required debt-related covenants, including financial covenants. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Our Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP which requires us to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. We believe that the following discussion addresses our most critical accounting estimates, which are those that have a significant level of estimation uncertainty, requiring our most difficult, subjective and complex judgments, and significantly impacts the Balance Sheets and Statement of Operations in the reporting period. Actual results may differ from the estimates. Refer to for a full discussion of our accounting policies. Purchase Accounting Our property acquisitions are accounted for under ASC 805 “Business Combinations” (“ASC 805”), which requires that we allocate the purchase price of our properties to the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as applicable. Our acquired properties generally meet the definition of an asset acquisition under ASC 805-50 and we typically allocate the cost of real estate acquired, inclusive of capitalizable transaction costs, to (i) land, (ii) building and improvements and (iii) site improvements, based in each case on their relative estimated fair values using industry standard practices such as market comparables and the cost approach. In an acquisition of multiple properties, we must also allocate the purchase price among the 53 properties, and in certain cases investments in unconsolidated affiliates, which is based on the (a) asset quality and location, (b) property and lease-level operating performance and (c) supply and demand dynamics of each property’s respective market. In addition, any assumed mortgages are recorded at their estimated fair values. Such allocations use significant estimates which can impact the determination of the accounting as a business combination or asset acquisition and the allocation to the differing components of an acquisition. Management uses industry standard practices to estimate the value assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in an acquisition, including the value assigned to each property, the liabilities assumed, as applicable, and the land and building property components within each property. Although management believes its estimate of both the value assigned to each property and to the land and building property components within each property is reasonable, no assurance can be given that such amounts will be correct. In particular, a change in the estimates could have a material impact on the business combination determination and the timing and amount of income recognized over the life of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Lease Accounting We account for our investments in leases under ASC 842 “Leases” (“ASC 842”), which requires significant estimates and judgments by management in its application. Upon lease inception or lease modification, we assess the lease classification of both the different components of the property, generally land and building, to determine whether each component should be classified as a direct financing, sales-type or operating lease. The determination of lease classification requires the calculation of the rate implicit in the lease, which is driven by significant estimates, including the estimation of both the value assigned to the land and building property components upon acquisition (as further described in “—Purchase Accounting” above) and the estimation of the unguaranteed residual value of such components at the end of the lease term, which includes the non-cancelable period and any renewal terms that, in our judgement, are reasonably certain to be exercised. If the lease component is determined to be a direct financing or sales-type lease, revenue is recognized over the life of the lease using the rate implicit in the lease. Management uses industry standard practices to estimate both the value assigned to the land and building property components upon acquisition and the unguaranteed residual value of such components, including comparable sales and replacement cost analyses. Although management believes its estimate of both the value assigned to the land and building property components upon acquisition and the unguaranteed residual value of such components is reasonable, no assurance can be given that such amounts will be correct. In particular a change in the estimates could have a material impact on the lease classification determination and the timing and amount of income recognized over the life of the lease. Allowance for Credit Losses ASC 326 “Financial Instruments-Credit Losses” (“ASC 326”) requires that we measure and record current expected credit losses (“CECL”) for the majority of our investments, the scope of which includes our Investments in leases - sales-type, Investments in leases - financing receivables and Investments in loans. We have elected to use a discounted cash flow model to estimate the Allowance for credit losses, or CECL allowance for our leases. This model requires us to develop cash flows which project estimated credit losses over the life of the lease and discount these cash flows at the asset’s effective interest rate. We then record a CECL allowance equal to the difference between the amortized cost basis of the asset and the present value of the expected credit loss cash flows. Expected losses within our cash flows are determined by estimating the probability of default (“PD”) and loss given default (“LGD”) of our tenants and their parent guarantors over the life of each individual lease or financial asset. The PD and LGD are estimated during a reasonable and supportable period for which we believe we are able to estimate future economic conditions (the “R&S Period”) and a long-term period for which we revert to long-term historical averages (the “Long-Term Period”). We are unable to use our historical data to estimate losses as we have no loss history to date. Given the length of our leases, the Long-Term Period PD and LGD are the most material and significant drivers of the CECL allowance. The PD and LGD for the Long-Term Period are estimated using the average historical default rates and historical loss rates, respectively, of public companies over the past 40 years that have similar credit profiles or characteristics to our tenants and their parent guarantors. We have engaged a nationally recognized data analytics firm to assist us with estimating both the PD and LGD of our tenants and their parent guarantors. Changes to the Long-Term Period PD and LGD are generally driven by (i) updated studies from the nationally recognized data analytics firm we employ to assist us with calculating the allowance and (ii) changes in the credit rating assigned to our tenants and their parent guarantors. 54 The following table illustrates the impact on the CECL allowance of our investment portfolio as a result of a 10% increase and decrease in the weighted average percentages used to estimate Long-Term PD and LGD of all of our tenants and their parent guarantors: Although management believes its estimate of the Long-Term PD and LGD described above is reasonable, no assurance can be given that the Long-Term PD and LGD for our tenants, or other drivers of the CECL allowance, will be correct. Any significant variation of Long-Term PD or LGD from management’s expectations could have a material impact on our financial condition and operating results.