********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this section and elsewhere in this report or in any other of our filings with the SEC could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In evaluating us, you should consider carefully, among other things, the risks described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face, but do represent those risks and uncertainties that we believe are material to us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that, as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we deem immaterial may also harm our business. Some statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including statements in the following risk factors, constitute forward-looking statements. Please refer to the section entitled “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Business and Operations The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely impacted our tenants’ operations and financial performance, as well as global and U.S. economic activity and market performance, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. Since being initially reported in December 2019, the outbreak of COVID-19 has spread globally and created considerable health risks in the United States and around the world, resulting in severely adversely impacted global, national and regional economic activity, and has contributed to significant volatility and negative pressure in financial markets. On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a pandemic, and on March 13, 2020, the U.S. federal government declared a national emergency concerning the COVID-19 outbreak. Several countries, including the United States, took steps to restrict air travel, and many state and local governments have instituted and continue to impose additional measures, including quarantines, states of emergency, mandatory business and school closures, “shelter-at-home” and similar orders and other restrictions on travel and large gatherings, as well as initiatives such as “social distancing” guidelines. In connection with these actions, state governments and/or regulatory authorities issued various directives, mandates, orders or similar actions that resulted in the closure of non-essential businesses, which included substantially all of our tenants’ operations, including at our properties, as well as our golf courses. While such governmental and regulatory measures have in many jurisdictions been lifted or modified, resulting in the reopening of most of our tenants’ operations at our properties, there can be no assurance that such restrictions will not be reinstated, new restrictions will not be imposed or closures required as a result of an increase in COVID-19 infections, or that other developments will not take place that would further limit our tenants’ operations, including at our properties. In addition, our tenants have experienced a substantial number of cancellations and reductions in future events and reservations in connection with the uncertain duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and business closures. Following the reopening of our tenants’ businesses, they faced, and continue to face, additional challenges with respect to restoring business activity, operations and financial performance to pre-pandemic levels, in particular as a result of changes in customer engagement. This reduced business activity has, and possible future closures may continue to, adversely affect our tenants’ financial performance, and such impact could be material to us depending on the ultimate duration of the pandemic and operational restrictions affecting our tenants’ ability to restore business activity and operations to pre-pandemic levels. These closures, operational restrictions and reduced business activity could also materially and adversely affect our tenants’ ability to meet their respective financial obligations going forward, including their obligations under our leases to pay us rent and make capital expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity. Although all of our tenants have fulfilled their rent obligations in full through February, we cannot predict with confidence future developments with respect to our tenants’ operations at our properties, including the potential for further closures or restrictions, or if and when they will return to pre-pandemic performance levels. As the duration of the pandemic and operational restrictions lengthens, our tenants’ liquidity positions may become more stressed which may cause one or more of our tenants to be unable to meet their obligations to us in full, or at all, or to otherwise seek modifications to such obligations. Any such modifications to our tenants’ obligations to us under our leases may have an adverse effect on our business. Even if our tenants are able to fulfill their obligations to us, their inability to meet their financial obligations to their creditors or other counterparties could also have a material adverse effect on our business. The financial impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, including a failure of any of our tenants to make full rental payments, or any other default by our tenants, under our Lease Agreements, could also negatively impact our or our tenants’ future compliance with financial covenants of existing and any future credit facilities and indebtedness, and result in a default and potentially an acceleration event, which non-compliance could negatively impact our or our tenants’ ability to make additional borrowings, including borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility, issue additional indebtedness and otherwise operate our respective businesses. Furthermore, the outbreak has triggered an economic contraction in the United States and a material global economic slowdown, which many experts predict may continue well beyond the lifting of governmental restrictions related to COVID-19 and result in changes to consumer behavior or other detrimental effects, thereby negatively affecting an economic recovery in 23 the gaming sector. Any sustained economic slowdown, contraction or recession, or the impact thereof, such as through decreased rates of employment or broader changes in consumer behavior, may further materially and adversely affect our tenants’ financial performance and ability to meet such obligations. We cannot predict with confidence when applicable government or regulatory orders, or travel and other restrictions, including orders and restrictions re-imposed in connection with the increase in the COVID-19 infection rate in the fourth quarter of 2020, will end or whether and on what timeline our tenants’ performance will improve or return to pre-pandemic levels. In addition, due to the current volatility in the debt and equity markets, we may be unable to obtain financing for future acquisitions on satisfactory terms, or at all. Continuing disruption and instability in the global financial markets or deteriorations in credit and financing conditions may affect our access to debt and equity capital in order to fund business operations, if necessary, or address maturing liabilities on a timely basis, as well as our tenants’ ability to fund their business operations, meet their obligations to us, and secure financing for any future or pending transactions. The full extent to which our business and results of operations will ultimately be affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and resulting economic slowdown, contraction or recession, and the extent to which such factors continue to adversely affect our tenants, will largely depend on future developments, including the duration of the pandemic, the actions taken to contain the pandemic or mitigate its impact, including the availability, distribution and efficacy of one or more vaccines, new or mutated strains of COVID-19 or a similar virus (including vaccine-resistant strains), and the direct and indirect economic effects of the pandemic and containment measures on our tenants, including the length of time our tenants’ operations at our properties remain restricted or whether the properties are required to partially or fully close again in the future, and our tenants’ financial performance during such closure and following reopening. In addition, new information may continue to emerge concerning the COVID-19 pandemic, such as the availability, distribution and efficacy of one or more vaccines, new or mutated strains of COVID-19 or a similar virus (including vaccine-resistant strains), other actions required to be undertaken to contain the COVID-19 pandemic or address its future impact, the response of the U.S. and global economies and the short- and long-term impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our tenants’ operations at our properties, which could further materially and adversely impact our business and results and operations. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events or any other related matters could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, prospects and the value of our common stock. The immediate and long-term effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on the gaming industry could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. The COVID-19 pandemic has had a severe and unprecedented impact on the gaming industry. Measures implemented to prevent its spread, including mandatory closure of non-essential businesses and government-imposed restrictions on travel and social gatherings, have had a significant adverse effect on the gaming industry. As a result of these measures, gaming facilities throughout the United States, including all of our tenants’ facilities at our properties, were temporarily closed, although such measures have in many jurisdictions been lifted or modified, resulting in the resumption of our tenants’ operations at our properties, although in many cases at reduced levels. During this period, many gaming companies face additional financial uncertainty or are generating substantially reduced revenue and have sought or taken measures intended to maintain liquidity and solvency, including employee furloughs and layoffs, reduced operating and capital expenditure budgets, and contractual relief or other accommodations with creditors, lenders and other counterparties. There is no guarantee that existing government-imposed restrictions on travel and social gatherings will be lifted in the near term, that additional government-imposed restrictions will not be implemented, or that previous restrictions that were lifted or modified, will not be reinstated. Moreover, the ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the gaming industry, the timing and extent of government-imposed restrictions and the performance of gaming facilities is highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence. Historically, economic indicators such as GDP growth, consumer confidence and employment are correlated with demand for gaming, entertainment and leisure properties, such as casinos and racetracks, and economic recessions, contractions or slowdowns have generally led to a decrease in discretionary spending on associated leisure activities. Long-term impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, such as decreases in discretionary spending or changing consumer preferences brought about by instability in global, national and regional economic activity and financial markets as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, could have a material adverse effect on leisure and business travel, discretionary spending and other areas of economic behavior that directly impact the gaming industry. Because we are dependent on the gaming industry, the immediate and long-term effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on the gaming industry could be material and adverse to our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. 24 We are and will always be significantly dependent on our tenants for our revenues, and unless or until we substantially diversify our portfolio an event that has a material adverse effect on any of our tenants’ businesses, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or prospects could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. We depend on our tenants to operate the properties that we own in a manner that generates revenues sufficient to allow the tenants to meet their obligations to us. Currently, a substantial majority of our revenue comes from our leases with subsidiaries of Caesars, Penn National, Hard Rock, JACK Entertainment and Century Casinos, with the most significant percentage of our revenues coming from Caesars. Because the leases are triple-net leases, in addition to the rent these tenants will owe us, we will depend on these tenants to pay substantially all insurance, taxes, utilities and maintenance and repair expenses in connection with these leased properties and to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their businesses. There can be no assurance that our tenants will have sufficient assets, income or access to financing to enable them to satisfy their payment and other obligations under their leases with us, or that the applicable guarantor will be able to satisfy its guarantee of the applicable tenant’s obligations. Our tenants rely on the properties they or their respective subsidiaries own and/or operate for income to satisfy their obligations, including their debt service requirements and lease and other payments due to us or others. In addition, Caesars relies on our properties, the Caesars Forum Convention Center and their other operations to satisfy their payment obligations under the Forum Convention Center Mortgage Loan. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, state governments and/or regulatory authorities issued various directives, mandates, orders or similar actions resulting in the closure of non-essential businesses, which included substantially all of our tenants’ operations, including at our properties and the Caesars Forum Convention Center. Although such measures have generally been lifted or modified, there is significant uncertainty regarding whether and to what extent similar measures will be reinstated, limiting our tenants’ ability to operate their businesses, including at our properties. If income at these properties were to decline for any reason, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, or if a tenant’s debt service requirements were to increase or if their creditworthiness were to become impaired for any reason, a tenant or the applicable guarantor may become unable or unwilling to satisfy its payment and other obligations under their leases or other agreements with us. The inability or unwillingness of a significant tenant to meet its payment or other obligations under a lease or other payment obligation with us could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects, including our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The gaming and entertainment industry is highly competitive and our tenants’ failure to continue to compete successfully could adversely affect their businesses, financial conditions, results of operations, and cash flows. In particular, our tenants’ businesses may be adversely impacted by the reinvestment and expansion by competitors in existing jurisdictions, and expansion of gaming into new jurisdictions in which gaming was not previously permitted, which would result in increased competition in these jurisdictions. Additionally, the casino entertainment industry represents a significant source of tax revenues to the various jurisdictions in which casinos operate. From time to time, various state and federal legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, including increases in tax rates, which would affect the industry. If adopted, such changes could adversely impact the business, financial condition, and results of operations of our tenants. Due to our dependence on rental and other payments from our tenants as our primary source of revenue, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights under the leases or other agreements with our tenants or terminate such other agreements or, due to our master lease structure, certain leases with respect to any particular property. Failure by our significant tenants to comply with the terms of their respective leases or to comply with the gaming regulations to which the leased properties are subject could result in, among other things, the termination of an applicable ground lease, requiring us to find another tenant for such property, to the extent possible, and there could be a decrease or cessation of rental payments by such tenants, as the case may be. In such event, we may lose our interest in a property subject to an applicable ground lease or be unable to locate a suitable, creditworthy tenant at similar rental rates or at all, which would have the effect of reducing our rental revenues and could have a material adverse effect on us. Because a concentrated portion of our revenues are generated from the Las Vegas Strip, we are subject to greater risks than a company that is more geographically diversified. Our properties on the Las Vegas Strip generated approximately 30% of our lease revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020. Therefore, our business may be significantly affected by risks common to the Las Vegas tourism industry. For example, the cost and availability of air services and the impact of any events that disrupt air travel to and from Las Vegas, including the impact of measures implemented to address the COVID-19 pandemic, can adversely affect the business of our tenants. We cannot control the number or frequency of flights to or from Las Vegas, but our largest tenant, Caesars, relies on air traffic for a significant portion of their visitors to these properties. Reductions in flights by major airlines as a result of higher fuel prices or lower demand, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, can impact the number of visitors to our properties. 25 Additionally, there is one principal interstate highway between Las Vegas and Southern California, where a large number of the customers that frequent our properties on the Las Vegas Strip reside. Capacity constraints of that highway or any other traffic disruptions may also affect the number of customers who visit our facilities. Additionally, travel from Southern California to our properties on the Las Vegas Strip may have been affected by the stay at home order announced by the Governor of the State of California in December 2020 in response to increased COVID-19 infection rates and there can be no assurance that additional stay-at-home or similar orders will not be implemented by the State of California or other states.  Moreover, due to the importance of our two properties on the Las Vegas Strip, we may be disproportionately affected by general risks such as acts of terrorism, natural disasters, including major fires, floods and earthquakes, and severe or inclement weather, including as a result of climate change, should such developments occur in or nearby Las Vegas. In addition, a material adverse impact on Caesars, even unrelated to the company’s operations in Las Vegas, that negatively affects Caesars’ financial condition, could materially and adversely affect us, given our reliance on their performance as tenants in our properties on the Las Vegas Strip. Caesars and its subsidiaries are party to certain leasing and financial commitments with us, which may have a negative impact on Caesars’ business and operating condition. Caesars and/or its subsidiaries entered into certain leasing and financial commitments, evidenced by agreements, with us. See for additional information regarding such agreements. Caesars, which is our largest tenant, is obligated to pay us in the aggregate approximately $6.2 billion in fixed annual rents under the Caesars Lease Agreements, payments under the Forum Convention Center Mortgage Loan and golf course membership fees under the Golf Course Use Agreement over the next five years under the applicable agreements, subject to certain escalators and adjustments. If Caesars’ businesses and properties fail to generate sufficient earnings, Caesars may be unable to satisfy its (or its subsidiaries’) obligations under the Caesars Lease Agreements, the Forum Convention Center Mortgage Loan, the Golf Course Use Agreement and the related guarantees. Additionally, these obligations may limit their ability to make investments to maintain and grow their portfolio of businesses and properties, which may adversely affect their competitiveness and ability to satisfy their obligations to us. In addition, prior to the Eldorado/Caesars Merger Caesars publicly disclosed that it expects to achieve synergies as a result of the Eldorado/Caesars Merger. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic or otherwise, Caesars may be unable to achieve such synergies during the time period that it expects to do so, or at all, and a failure to achieve these synergies may adversely affect Caesars, including its creditworthiness, and impair its ability to meet its obligations to us. Moreover, given Caesars’ significance to our business, a failure on the part of Caesars to realize expected synergies and any related improvement to its creditworthiness, or any deterioration of its creditworthiness, could materially and adversely affect us, even in the absence of a default under our agreements with Caesars. Subsidiaries of Caesars are required to pay a significant portion of their cash flow from operations to us pursuant to, and subject to the terms and conditions of, the Caesars Lease Agreements and the Forum Convention Center Mortgage Loan which could adversely affect Caesars’ ability to fund its operations or development projects, raise capital, make acquisitions, and otherwise respond to competitive and economic changes and its ability to satisfy its payment obligations to us under the Lease Agreements, the Forum Convention Center Mortgage Loan and the related guarantees. Subsidiaries of Caesars are required to pay a significant portion of their cash flow from operations to us pursuant to, and subject to the terms and conditions of, the Caesars Lease Agreements. See “Business-Our Lease Agreement-Caesars Lease Agreements-Overview” and “Business-Our Relationship with Caesars.” As a result of this commitment, Caesars’ ability to fund its operations or development projects, raise capital, make acquisitions and otherwise respond to competitive and economic changes may be adversely affected, which could adversely affect the ability of the applicable tenants to satisfy their obligations to us under the Caesars Lease Agreements and the ability of Caesars to satisfy its obligations to us under the related guarantees. In addition, during the initial seven years of the Caesars Lease Agreements, the annual rent escalations under the Caesars Lease Agreements will continue to apply regardless of the amount of cash flows generated by the properties that are subject to the Caesars Lease Agreements. Accordingly, if the cash flows generated by such properties decrease, or do not increase at the same rate as the rent escalations, the rents payable under the Caesars Lease Agreements will comprise a higher percentage of the cash flows generated by the subsidiaries of Caesars, which could make it more difficult for the applicable subsidiaries to meet their payment obligations to us under the Caesars Lease Agreements and ultimately could adversely affect the applicable guarantor’s ability to satisfy their respective obligations to us under the related guarantees. 26 Caesars’ indebtedness and the fact that a significant portion of its cash flow is used to make interest payments could adversely affect its ability to satisfy its obligations under the Caesars Lease Agreements and the Forum Convention Center Mortgage Loan. As disclosed in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2020, Caesars’ consolidated estimated debt service (including principal and interest) for 2021 will be approximately $917.0 million and $19.2 billion thereafter to maturity. As a result, a significant portion of Caesars’ liquidity needs are for debt service, including significant interest payments. Such substantial indebtedness and the restrictive covenants under the agreements governing such indebtedness could limit the ability of the applicable tenants and borrower to satisfy their respective obligations to us under the Lease Agreements and the Forum Convention Center Mortgage Loan and the ability of Caesars to satisfy its obligations under the related guarantees. We are dependent on the gaming industry and may be susceptible to the risks associated with it, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. As the landlord of gaming facilities, we are impacted by the risks associated with the gaming industry. Therefore, so long as our investments are concentrated in gaming-related assets, our success is dependent on the gaming industry, which could be adversely affected by economic conditions in general, changes in consumer trends and preferences and other factors over which we and our tenants have no control, including the immediate and long-term effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. As we are subject to risks inherent in substantial investments in a single industry, a decrease in the gaming business would likely have a greater adverse effect on us than if we owned a more diversified real estate portfolio, particularly because a component of the rent under the Lease Agreements will be based, over time, on the performance of the gaming facilities operated by our tenants on our properties and such effect could be material and adverse to our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. The gaming industry is characterized by a high degree of competition among a large number of participants, including riverboat casinos, dockside casinos, land-based casinos, video lottery, sweepstakes and poker machines not located in casinos, Native American gaming, emerging varieties of internet gaming, sports betting and other forms of gaming in the United States and, in a broader sense, gaming operators face competition from all manner of leisure and entertainment activities. Gaming competition is intense in most of the markets where our facilities are located. Recently, there has been additional significant competition in the gaming industry as a result of the upgrading or expansion of facilities by existing market participants, the entrance of new gaming participants into a market, internet gaming or legislative changes. As competing properties and new markets are opened, we may be negatively impacted. Additionally, decreases in discretionary consumer spending brought about by weakened general economic conditions such as, but not limited to, the impact of, and recovery following, the COVID-19 pandemic, lackluster recoveries from recessions, contractions, high unemployment levels, higher income taxes, low levels of consumer confidence, weakness in the housing market, cultural and demographic changes and increased stock market volatility may negatively impact our revenues and operating cash flows. We and our tenants face extensive regulation from gaming and other regulatory authorities, and our charter provides that any of our shares held by investors who are found to be unsuitable by state gaming regulatory authorities are subject to redemption. The ownership, operation, and management of gaming and racing facilities are subject to extensive regulation by one or more gaming authorities in each applicable jurisdiction where gaming and racing facilities are permitted. These gaming and racing regulations impact our gaming and racing tenants and persons associated with our gaming and racing facilities, which in many jurisdictions include us as the landlord and owner of the real estate. Certain gaming authorities in the jurisdictions in which we hold properties may require us and/or our affiliates to maintain a license as a principal, key business entity or supplier because of our status as landlord. Gaming authorities also retain great discretion to require us to be found suitable as a landlord, and certain of our stockholders, officers and directors may be required to be found suitable as well. Regulatory authorities also have broad powers with respect to the licensing of casino operations, and may revoke, suspend, condition or limit the gaming or other licenses of our tenants, impose substantial fines or take other actions, any one of which could adversely impact the business, financial condition and results of operations of our tenants. In addition, in many jurisdictions, licenses are granted for limited durations and require renewal from time to time. In many jurisdictions, gaming laws can require certain of our stockholders to file an application, be investigated, and qualify or have his, her or its suitability determined by gaming authorities. Gaming authorities have very broad discretion in determining whether a stockholder is required to file an application and whether an applicant should be deemed suitable. Subject to certain administrative proceeding requirements, the gaming regulators have the authority to deny any application or limit, condition, restrict, revoke or suspend any license, registration, finding of suitability or approval, or fine any person licensed, registered or found suitable or approved, for any cause deemed reasonable by the gaming authorities. 27 Gaming authorities may conduct investigations into the conduct or associations of our directors, officers, key employees or investors to ensure compliance with applicable standards. If we are required to be found suitable and are found suitable as a landlord, we will be registered as a public company with the gaming authorities and will be subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to be a stockholder or to have any other relationship with us, we: • pay that person any distribution or interest upon any of our securities; • allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right conferred through securities held by that person; • pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or • fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require such unsuitable person to relinquish his or her securities, including, if necessary, the immediate redemption of such securities in accordance with our charter. Many jurisdictions also require any person who acquires beneficial ownership of more than a certain percentage of voting securities of a gaming company and, in some jurisdictions, non-voting securities, typically 5% of a publicly-traded company, to report the acquisition to gaming authorities, and gaming authorities may require such holders to apply for qualification, licensure or a finding of suitability, subject to limited exceptions for “institutional investors” that hold a company’s securities for passive investment purposes only. Our outstanding shares of capital stock are held subject to applicable gaming laws. Any person owning or controlling at least 5% of the outstanding shares of any class of our capital stock is required to promptly notify us of such person’s identity and apply for qualification, licensure, finding of suitability, or an institutional investor waiver, as applicable. Some jurisdictions may also limit the number of gaming licenses in which a person may hold an ownership or a controlling interest. Further, our directors, officers, key employees and investors in our shares must meet approval standards of certain gaming regulatory authorities. If such gaming regulatory authorities were to find such a person or investor unsuitable, we may be required to sever our relationship with that person or the investor may be required to dispose of his, her or its interest in us. Our charter provides that all of our shares held by investors who are found to be unsuitable by regulatory authorities are subject to redemption upon our receipt of notice of such finding. Additionally, because we and our tenants are subject to regulation in numerous jurisdictions, and because regulatory agencies within each jurisdiction review compliance with gaming laws in other jurisdictions, it is possible that gaming compliance issues in one jurisdiction may lead to reviews and compliance issues in other jurisdictions. The loss of gaming licenses by our tenants could result in the cessation of operations at one or more of the facilities we lease to such tenants.  The loss of gaming licenses by us could result in an event of default under certain of our indebtedness, and cross-default provisions in our debt agreements could cause an event of default under one debt agreement to trigger an event of default under our other debt agreements. Finally, substantially all material loans, significant acquisitions, leases, sales of securities and similar financing transactions by us and our subsidiaries must be reported to, and in some cases approved by, gaming authorities in advance of the transaction, which may include a public offering of certain securities. Changes in control through merger, consolidation, stock or asset acquisitions, management or consulting agreements, or otherwise may be subject to receipt of prior approval of certain gaming authorities. Entities seeking to acquire control of us or one of our subsidiaries (and certain of our affiliates) must satisfy gaming authorities with respect to a variety of stringent standards prior to assuming control. Failure to satisfy the stringent licensing standards may preclude entities from acquiring an ownership or a controlling interest in us or one of our subsidiaries (and certain of our affiliates) and/or require the entities to divest such interest. Required regulatory approvals can delay or prohibit transfers of our gaming properties or the consummation of other pending transactions, which could result in periods in which we are unable to receive rent for such properties or otherwise realize the benefits of such transactions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. Our tenants are (and any future tenants of our gaming properties will be) required to be licensed under applicable law in order to operate any of our properties as gaming facilities. If the Lease Agreements, or any future lease agreement we enter into, are terminated (which could be required by a regulatory agency) or expire, any new tenant must be licensed and receive other regulatory approvals to operate our properties as gaming facilities. Any delay in, or inability of, the new tenant to receive required licenses and other regulatory approvals from the applicable state and county government agencies may prolong the period during which we are unable to collect the applicable rent. Further, in the event that the Lease Agreements or future lease agreements are terminated or expire and a new tenant is not licensed or fails to receive other regulatory approvals, the properties may not be operated as gaming facilities and we will not be able to collect the applicable rent. Moreover, we may be unable to transfer or sell the affected properties as gaming facilities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. In addition, given the highly regulated nature of the gaming industry, any future transactions we enter into are likely to be subject to regulatory approval in one or more jurisdictions, including with respect to any transfers in ownership, operating licensure or other regulatory considerations. If the consummation of a pending 28 transaction (including with respect to the future entry into a new lease agreement) is delayed or prohibited by regulatory authorities, we may be limited or otherwise unable to realize the benefits of the proposed transaction. Tenants may choose not to renew the Lease Agreements. We enter into long-term lease agreements with our tenants, consisting of an initial lease term with the potential for the tenant to extend for multiple additional terms, which may be subject to additional terms and conditions. For example, each of the Caesars Lease Agreements have an initial lease term of 15 years with the potential for up to four additional five-year term extensions thereafter (with the initial lease term under each of the Caesars Lease Agreements extended in connection with the Eldorado Transaction to expire in July 2035). With respect to the properties under the Regional Master Lease Agreement, the aggregate lease term, including renewals, may be cutback to the extent it would otherwise exceed 80% of the remaining useful life of the applicable leased property, solely at the option of the tenants. At the expiration of the initial lease term or of any additional renewal term thereafter, our tenants may choose not to renew the applicable Lease Agreement. If a Lease Agreement expires without renewal and we are not able to find suitable, credit-worthy tenants to replace the previous tenants on the same or more attractive terms, our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected, including our ability to make distributions to our stockholders at the then current level, or at all. In particular with respect to the  coterminous nature of the Caesars Lease Agreements, this risk would be exacerbated if Caesars elected not to renew all such lease agreements at any one time. Net leases may not result in fair market lease rates over time, which could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows and reduce the amount of funds available to make distributions to stockholders. All of our rental revenue and a substantial majority of our total revenue is generated from the Lease Agreements, which are triple-net leases, and provide greater flexibility to the respective tenants related to the use of the applicable leased property than would be the case with ordinary property leases, such as the right to freely sublease portions of each leased property, to make alterations in the leased premises and to terminate the lease prior to its expiration under specified circumstances. Furthermore, net leases typically have longer lease terms and, thus, there is an increased risk that contractual rental increases in future years will fail to result in fair market rental rates during those years. As a result, our results of operations and cash flows and distributions to our stockholders could be lower than they would otherwise be if we did not enter into a net lease. The Lease Agreements may restrict our ability to sell the properties. Our ability to sell or dispose of our properties may be hindered by the fact that such properties are subject to the Lease Agreements, as the terms of the Lease Agreements require that a purchaser assume the Lease Agreements or, in certain cases, enter into a severance lease with the tenants for the sold property on substantially the same terms as contained in the applicable Lease Agreement, which may make our properties less attractive to a potential buyer than alternative properties that may be for sale. If Caesars declares bankruptcy and such action results in a lease being re-characterized as a disguised financing transaction in its bankruptcy proceeding, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. If Caesars declares bankruptcy, our business could be materially and adversely affected if a bankruptcy court re-characterizes the CPLV Additional Rent Acquisition or the HLV Additional Rent Acquisition as a disguised financing transaction. In the event of re-characterization, our claim under a lease agreement with respect to the additional rent acquired in the HLV Additional Rent Acquisition and CPLV Additional Rent Acquisition could either be secured or unsecured. Generally, the leases permit us to take steps to create and perfect a security interest in the leased property, but such attempts could be subject to challenge by the tenant or its creditors and, with respect to the CPLV Additional Rent Acquisition and the HLV Additional Rent Acquisition, there is no assurance that a court would find that portion of our claim to be secured. The bankrupt lessee and other affiliates of Caesars and their creditors under this scenario might have the ability to restructure the terms, including the amount owed to us under the lease with respect to the additional rent. If approved by the bankruptcy court, we could be bound by the new terms and prevented from collecting such additional rent acquired in the CPLV Additional Rent Acquisition and HLV Additional Rent Acquisition, and our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Properties within our portfolio are, and properties that we may acquire in the future are likely to be, operated and promoted under certain trademarks and brand names that we do not own. Most of the properties within our portfolio are currently operated and promoted under trademarks and brand names not owned by us, including Caesars, Harrah’s, Harvey’s, Horseshoe, Margaritaville, Greektown, JACK, Hard Rock, Century and Mountaineer. In addition, properties that we may acquire in the future may be operated and promoted under these same 29 trademarks and brand names, or under different trademarks and brand names we do not, or will not, own. During the term that our properties are managed by our tenants, we will be reliant on our tenants to maintain and protect the trademarks, brand names and other licensed intellectual property used in the operation or promotion of the leased properties. Operation of the leased properties, as well as our business and financial condition, could be adversely impacted by infringement, invalidation, unauthorized use or litigation affecting any such intellectual property. Moreover, if any of our properties are rebranded unsuccessfully, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects, as we may not enjoy comparable recognition or status under a new brand. A transition of management away from a Caesars, Penn National, Hard Rock, Century Casinos, or JACK Entertainment entity could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, and may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our substantial indebtedness exposes us to the risk of default under our debt obligations, limits our operating flexibility, increases the risks associated with a downturn in our business or in the businesses of our tenants, and requires us to use a substantial portion of our cash to service our debt obligations. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness and debt service requirements. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately $6.9 billion in long-term indebtedness, consisting of: • $2.1 billion of total indebtedness outstanding under our Term Loan B Facility; • $750.0 million of outstanding 2025 Notes; • $1.25 billion of outstanding 2026 Notes; • $750.0 million of outstanding 2027 Notes; • $1.0 billion of outstanding 2029 Notes; and • $1.0 billion of outstanding 2030 Notes. As of December 31, 2020, we also have $1.0 billion of available capacity to borrow under our Revolving Credit Facility. Our Term Loan B and Revolving Credit Facility are collateralized by substantially all of our properties. Payments of principal and interest under this indebtedness, or any other instruments governing debt we may incur in the future, may leave us with insufficient cash resources to pursue our business and growth strategies or to pay the distributions currently contemplated or necessary to qualify or maintain qualification as a REIT. Our substantial outstanding indebtedness or future indebtedness, and the limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements, could have other significant adverse consequences, including the following: • our cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments; • our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments, including as a result of COVID-19, may be increased; • we may be unable to borrow additional funds as needed or on favorable terms, which could, among other things, adversely affect our ability to capitalize upon emerging acquisition opportunities, including exercising our rights of first refusal and call rights described herein, or meet operational needs; • we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of our original indebtedness; • we may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties if permitted under the Lease Agreements, possibly on disadvantageous terms or at a loss; • the ability of the Operating Partnership to distribute cash to us may be limited or prohibited, which would materially and adversely affect our ability to make distributions on our common stock; • we may fail to comply with the payment and restrictive covenants in our loan documents, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate payment of outstanding loans and foreclose on any properties servicing such loans; and • we may be unable to hedge floating rate debt, counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under our hedge agreements and these agreements may not effectively hedge interest rate fluctuation risk. If any one of these events were to occur, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, the market price of our common stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay distributions to our stockholders could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the foreclosure on our properties could create REIT taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, which could result in entity level taxes to us or could adversely affect our ability to meet the distribution requirements necessary to qualify or maintain qualification as a REIT. 30 In addition, the Code generally requires that a REIT distribute annually to its stockholders at least 90% of its REIT taxable income (with certain adjustments), determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gains, and that it pay tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that it distributes annually less than 100% of its REIT taxable income, including capital gains. VICI Golf is also subject to U.S. Federal income tax at regular corporate rates on any of its taxable income. In order to maintain our status as a REIT and avoid or otherwise minimize current entity-level U.S. Federal income taxes, a substantial portion of our cash flow after operating expenses and debt service will be required to be distributed to our stockholders. Because of the limitations on the amount of cash available to us after satisfying our debt service obligations and our distribution obligations to maintain our status as a REIT and avoid or otherwise minimize current entity-level U.S. Federal income taxes, our ability to pursue our business and growth strategies may be limited. Any mechanic’s liens or similar liens incurred by the tenants under the Lease Agreements may attach to, and constitute liens on, our interests in the properties. To the extent the tenants under the Lease Agreements make any improvements, these improvements could cause mechanic’s liens or similar liens to attach to, and constitute liens on, our interests in the properties. To the extent that mechanic’s liens or similar liens are recorded against any of the properties or any properties we may acquire in the future, the holders of such mechanic’s liens or similar liens may enforce them by court action and courts may cause the applicable properties or future properties to be sold to satisfy such liens, which could negatively impact our revenues, results of operations, cash flows and distributions to our stockholders. Further, holders of such liens could have priority over our stockholders in the event of bankruptcy or liquidation, and as a result, a trustee in bankruptcy may have difficulty realizing or foreclosing on such properties in any such bankruptcy or liquidation, and the amount of distributions our stockholders could receive in such bankruptcy or liquidation could be reduced. Adverse changes in our credit rating may affect our borrowing capacity and borrowing terms. Our outstanding debt is periodically rated by nationally recognized credit rating agencies. The credit ratings are based upon our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial condition, and other factors viewed by the credit rating agencies as relevant to both our industry and the economic outlook. Our credit rating may affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financing we obtain. Because we rely in part on debt financing to fund growth, the absence of an investment grade credit rating or any credit rating downgrade or negative outlook may have a negative effect on our future growth. We will have future capital needs and may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future to refinance our existing indebtedness or to finance newly acquired assets or for general corporate or other purposes. Any significant additional indebtedness could require a substantial portion of our cash flow to make interest and principal payments due on our indebtedness. Greater demands on our cash resources may reduce funds available to us to pay distributions, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, or carry out other aspects of our business and growth strategies. Increased indebtedness can also limit our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions, make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions and create competitive disadvantages for us compared to other companies with relatively lower debt levels. Increased future debt service obligations may limit our operational and financial flexibility. Further, to the extent we were required to incur indebtedness, our future interest costs would increase, thereby reducing our earnings and cash flows from what they otherwise would have been. Moreover, our ability to obtain additional financing and satisfy our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time will depend upon our future operating performance, which is subject to then prevailing general economic and credit market conditions, including interest rate levels and the availability of credit generally, and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The prolonged continuation or worsening of current credit market conditions would have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, if at all. We may be unable to obtain additional financing or financing on favorable terms or our operating cash flow may be insufficient to satisfy our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time (if any). Among other things, the absence of an investment grade credit rating or any credit rating downgrade or negative outlook could increase our financing costs and could limit our access to financing sources. If financing is not available when needed, or is available on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to pursue our business and growth strategies or otherwise take advantage of new business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. We may raise additional funds in the future through the issuance of equity securities and, as a result, our stockholders may experience significant dilution, which may adversely affect the market price of 31 our common stock and make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell our shares at a time and price that they deem appropriate and could impair our future ability to raise capital through an offering of our equity securities. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness as it becomes due depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness and any future indebtedness will depend, in part, on our current and projected financial condition, liquidity and results of operations and economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness as it becomes due, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are not able to refinance our indebtedness as it becomes due, we will be obligated to pay such indebtedness with cash from our operations and we may not have sufficient cash to do so, which would have a material and adverse effect on us. Covenants in our debt agreements limit our operational flexibility, and a covenant breach or default could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain customary covenants, including restrictions on our ability to grant liens on our assets, incur indebtedness, sell assets, make investments, engage in acquisitions, mergers or consolidations, engage in transactions with affiliates and pay certain dividends and other restricted payments. In addition, we are required to comply with certain financial maintenance covenants. These restrictions could seriously harm our business by, among other things, limiting our operational flexibility. A breach of any of these covenants or covenants under any other agreements governing our indebtedness could result in an event of default. Cross-default provisions in our debt agreements could cause an event of default under one debt agreement to trigger an event of default under our other debt agreements. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our debt agreements, the lenders could elect to declare all outstanding debt under such agreements to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay or refinance the accelerated debt, the lenders could proceed against any assets pledged to secure any debt that is secured by such assets, including foreclosing on or requiring the sale of our properties, and our assets may not be sufficient to repay such debt in full. Covenants that limit our operational flexibility as well as defaults under our debt instruments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. A rise in interest rates may increase our overall interest rate expense and could adversely affect our stock price. A rise in interest rates may increase our overall interest rate expense and have an adverse impact on our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. The risk presented by holding variable rate indebtedness can be managed or mitigated by utilizing interest rate protection products. Although we currently use such products with respect to a portion of our indebtedness, there is no assurance that we will utilize any of these products effectively, will use such products in the future, or that such products will be available to us. In addition, in the event of a rise in interest rates, new debt, whether fixed or variable, is likely to be more expensive, which could, among other things, make the financing of any acquisition or investment more expensive, and we may be unable to incur new debt or replace maturing debt with new debt at equal or better interest rates. Further, the dividend yield on our common stock (i.e., the annualized distributions per share of our common stock as a percentage of the market price per share of our common stock), will influence the market price of such common stock. Thus, an increase in market interest rates, which are currently at low levels relative to historical rates, may lead prospective purchasers of our common stock to expect a higher dividend yield. In addition, higher interest rates would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease our cash available for distribution. Thus, higher market interest rates could also cause the market price of shares of our common stock to decline. We have engaged and may engage in hedging transactions that may limit gains or result in losses. We use derivatives to hedge certain of our liabilities and we currently have interest rate swap agreements in place. As of December 31, 2020, we had in place six interest rate swap agreements with third party financial institutions having an aggregate notional amount of $2.0 billion. Subsequent to year end, on January 22, 2021, two of our interest rate swaps with a notional balance of $500.0 million matured and, as a result, as of the date of this Form 10-K, $1.5 billion of our total indebtedness was hedged.  The interest rate swap transactions are designated as cash flow hedges that effectively fix the LIBOR component of the interest rate on a portion of the outstanding debt under the Term Loan B Facility. The counterparties of these arrangements are major financial institutions; however, we are exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by the counterparties. This has certain risks, including losses on a hedge position, which may reduce the return on our investments. Such losses may exceed the amount invested in such instruments. In addition, counterparties to a hedging arrangement could default on their obligations. We may have to pay certain costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs, related to hedging transactions. 32 We may not be able to purchase the properties subject to the A&R Convention Center Put-Call Agreement, the Centaur Properties Put-Call Agreement, the Las Vegas Strip Assets ROFR Agreement or the Horseshoe Baltimore ROFR Agreement if we are unable to obtain additional financing. In addition, we may be forced to dispose of Harrah’s Las Vegas to Caesars, possibly on disadvantageous terms. Pursuant to the A&R Convention Center Put-Call Agreement, the Centaur Properties Put-Call Agreement, the Las Vegas Strip Assets ROFR Agreement and the Horseshoe Baltimore ROFR Agreement, we have certain rights to purchase the properties subject to these agreements, subject to the terms and conditions included in each agreement with respect to each property. In order to exercise these rights and any similar rights we obtain in the future or to fulfill our obligations with respect to certain put rights, we would likely be required to secure additional financing and our substantial level of indebtedness or other factors could limit our ability to do so on attractive terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us, we may not be able to exercise these rights and acquire these properties, including the Caesars Forum Convention Center, or to fulfill our obligations with respect to certain put rights. Even if financing with acceptable terms is available to us, there can be no assurance that we will exercise any of these rights. Further, each of the transactions remains subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable agreements, including with respect to due diligence, applicable regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. The A&R Convention Center Put-Call Agreement also provides that if Caesars exercises the Convention Center Put Right and, among other things, the sale of the Caesars Forum Convention Center to us does not close, under certain circumstances, a repurchase right in favor of Caesars, which, if exercised, would result in the sale of the Harrah’s Las Vegas property by us to Caesars.  Such a sale may be at disadvantageous terms and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. The bankruptcy or insolvency of any tenant, borrower or guarantor could result in the termination of the Lease Agreements, the related guarantees or loan agreements and material losses to us. We are subject to the credit risk of our tenants and borrowers. We cannot assure you that our tenants and borrowers will not default on their obligations and fail to make payments to us. In particular, disruptions in the financial and credit markets, local economic conditions and other factors affecting the gaming industry, including the COVID-19 pandemic, may affect our tenants’ and borrowers’ ability to obtain financing to operate their businesses or continue to profitability execute their business plans. This, in turn, may cause our tenants and borrowers to be unable to meet their financial obligations, including making rental or loan payments to us, as applicable, which may result in their bankruptcy or insolvency. In addition, in the event of a bankruptcy of our tenants, borrowers or their respective guarantors, any claim for damages under the applicable lease, loan agreement or guarantee may not be paid in full. For these and other reasons, the bankruptcy of one or more of our tenants, borrowers or their respective guarantors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. Furthermore, with respect to the Caesars Lease Agreements, although the tenants’ performance and payments are guaranteed by Caesars, a default by the applicable tenant under the Caesars Lease Agreements, or by Caesars with regard to its guarantee, may cause a default under certain circumstances with regard to the entire portfolio covered by the Caesars Lease Agreements. In event of such a bankruptcy, there can be no assurances that the tenants or Caesars would assume the Caesars Lease Agreements or the related guarantees, and if the Caesars Lease Agreements or guarantees were rejected, the tenant or Caesars, as applicable, may not have sufficient funds to pay the damages that would be owed to us as a result of the rejection and we might not be able to find a replacement tenant on the same or better terms. Our pursuit of investments in, and acquisitions of, additional properties may be unsuccessful or fail to meet our expectations. We intend to continue to pursue acquisitions of additional properties and seek acquisitions, investments and other strategic opportunities. Accordingly, we may often be engaged in evaluating potential transactions and other strategic alternatives. In addition, from time to time, we may engage in discussions that may result in one or more transactions. Although there is uncertainty that any of these discussions will result in definitive agreements or the completion of any transaction, we may devote a significant amount of our management resources to such a transaction, which could negatively impact our operations. We may incur significant costs in connection with seeking acquisitions or other strategic opportunities regardless of whether the transaction is completed and, to the extent applicable, in combining our operations if such a transaction is completed. We operate in a highly competitive industry and face competition from other REITs, investment companies, private equity firms and hedge funds, sovereign funds, lenders, gaming companies and other investors, some of whom are significantly larger and have greater resources, access to capital and lower costs of capital. Increased competition will make it more challenging to identify and successfully capitalize on acquisition opportunities that meet our investment objectives. If we cannot identify and purchase a sufficient quantity of gaming properties and other experiential properties at favorable prices or if we are unable to 33 finance acquisitions on commercially favorable terms, our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, the fact that we must distribute 90% of our REIT taxable income in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT may limit our ability to rely upon rental payments from our leased properties or subsequently acquired properties in order to finance acquisitions. As a result, if debt or equity financing is not available on acceptable terms, further acquisitions might be limited or curtailed. Investments in and acquisitions of gaming properties and other experiential properties entail risks associated with real estate investments generally, including that the investment’s performance will fail to meet expectations, that the cost estimates for necessary property improvements will prove inaccurate or the operator or manager will underperform. Further, even if we were able to acquire or invest in additional properties in the future, there is no guarantee that such properties would be able to maintain their historical performance, which may prevent the ability of our tenants to pay the partial or total amount of the required lease payments under the respective Lease Agreements or our borrowers to fulfill their payment obligations under the applicable agreement. In addition, our financing of these acquisitions and investments could negatively impact our cash flows and liquidity, require us to incur substantial debt or involve the issuance of substantial new equity, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in implementing our business and growth strategies or that any expansion will improve operating results. The failure to identify and acquire or invest in new properties effectively, or the failure of any acquired properties to perform as expected, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We may sell or divest different properties or assets after an evaluation of our portfolio of businesses. Such sales or divestitures could affect our costs, revenues, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. From time to time, we may evaluate our properties and may, as a result, sell or attempt to sell, divest, or spin-off different properties or assets, subject to the terms of the Lease Agreements. For example, in 2020 we, together with Caesars, sold Harrah’s Reno and Bally’s Atlantic City and entered into definitive agreements to sell Harrah’s Louisiana Downs. These sales or divestitures could affect our costs, revenues, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and our ability to comply with financial covenants. Divestitures have inherent risks, including possible delays in closing transactions (including potential difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals), the risk of lower-than-expected sales proceeds for the divested businesses, and potential post-closing claims for indemnification. In addition, current economic conditions at the time and relatively illiquid real estate markets may result in fewer potential bidders and unsuccessful sales efforts. Our properties and the properties securing our loans are subject to risks from natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, severe weather and terrorism. Our properties, and our borrowers’ properties secured as collateral, including the Caesars Forum Convention Center, are located in areas that may be subject to natural disasters, such as earthquakes, and extreme weather conditions, including, but not limited to, hurricanes. Such natural disasters or extreme weather conditions may interrupt operations at the casinos, damage our properties, and reduce the number of customers who visit our facilities in such areas. A severe earthquake could damage or destroy our properties. In addition, our operations could be adversely impacted by a drought or other cause of water shortage. A severe drought of extensive duration experienced in Las Vegas or in the other regions in which we operate could adversely affect the business and financial results at our properties. Although the tenants and borrowers, as applicable, are required to maintain both property and business interruption insurance coverage, such coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits, including limitation on the coverage period for business interruption, and we cannot assure you that we or our tenants will be able to fully insure such losses or fully collect, if at all, on claims resulting from such natural disasters. While the Lease Agreements and loan agreements require, and new lease agreements and loan agreements are expected to require, that comprehensive insurance and hazard insurance be maintained by the tenants and borrowers, as applicable, there are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. Insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement cost of a loss. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace the property after such property has been damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds received might not be adequate to restore the economic position with respect to such property. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds our policy coverage limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future cash flows from those properties. Terrorist attacks or other acts of violence may result in declining economic activity, which could harm the demand for goods and services offered by our tenants and the value of our properties or collateral and might adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. Such a resulting decrease in retail demand could make it difficult for us to renew or re-lease our properties to suitable, credit-worthy tenants at lease rates equal to or above historical rates. Terrorist activities or violence 34 also could directly affect the value of our properties through damage, destruction or loss, and the availability of insurance for such acts, or of insurance generally, might be lower or cost more, which could increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. To the extent that any of our tenants or borrowers are affected by future terrorist attacks or violence, its business similarly could be adversely affected, including the ability of our tenants or borrowers to continue to meet their obligations to us. These events might erode business and consumer confidence and spending and might result in increased volatility in national and international financial markets and economies. Any one of these events might decrease demand for real estate, decrease or delay the occupancy of our new or redeveloped properties, and limit our access to capital or increase our cost of raising capital. In addition, the Regional Master Lease Agreement and the Las Vegas Master Lease Agreement allow the tenant to remove a property from such lease agreement, and each of our other Lease Agreements may be terminated by the applicable tenant if: (i) a casualty event occurs (a) in the case of the Caesars Lease Agreements, during the final two years of the term and (b) in the case of the Hard Rock Cincinnati Lease Agreement, the Century Portfolio Lease Agreement and the JACK Cleveland/Thistledown Lease Agreement, the final year of the term, and (ii) the cost to rebuild or restore the applicable property in connection with a casualty event exceeds 25% (or, in the case of the Century Portfolio Lease Agreement, 50%) of such property’s total property fair market value. Similarly, if a condemnation event occurs that renders a facility unsuitable for its primary intended use, the applicable tenants may remove the property from the Regional Master Lease Agreement and may terminate the Las Vegas Master Lease Agreement, the Joliet Lease Agreement, the Hard Rock Cincinnati Lease Agreement, the Century Portfolio Lease Agreement or the JACK Cleveland/Thistledown Lease Agreement, as the case may be. The Penn National Lease Agreements allows the tenants to terminate their respective leases during the final year of the lease term if 50% or more of the square feet of the improvements are destroyed by a casualty event such that the improvements are rendered substantially untenantable. If a condemnation event occurs that renders Margaritaville or Greektown reasonably uneconomical for the operation of the improvements thereon on a commercially practicable basis for their permitted use as rentable facilities capable of producing a fair and reasonable net income therefrom, the tenant may terminate the Margaritaville Lease Agreement or the Greektown Lease Agreement, respectively. If a property is removed from the Regional Master Lease Agreement or if the Las Vegas Master Lease Agreement, the Joliet Lease Agreement, the Penn National Lease Agreements, the Hard Rock Cincinnati Lease Agreement, the Century Portfolio Lease Agreement or the JACK Thistledown/Cleveland Lease Agreement, as the case may be, is terminated, we will lose the rent associated with the related facility, which would have a negative impact on our financial results. In this event, following termination of the lease of a property, even if we are able to restore the affected property, we could be limited to selling or leasing such property to a new tenant in order to obtain an alternate source of revenue, which may not happen on comparable terms or at all. Changes in building and/or zoning laws may require us to update a property in the event of recapture or prevent us from fully restoring a property in the event of a substantial casualty loss and/or require us to meet additional or more stringent construction requirements. Due to changes in, among other things, applicable building and zoning laws, ordinances and codes that may affect certain of our properties that have come into effect after the initial construction of the properties, certain properties may not comply fully with current building and/or zoning laws, including electrical, fire, health and safety codes and regulations, use, lot coverage, parking and setback requirements, but may qualify as permitted non-conforming uses. Although the Lease Agreements require our tenants to pay for and ensure continued compliance with applicable law, there is no assurance that future leases will be negotiated on the same basis or that our tenants will make any changes required by the terms of the Lease Agreements and/or any future leases we may enter into. In addition, such changes may limit a tenant’s ability to restore the premises of a property to its previous condition in the event of a substantial casualty loss with respect to the property or the ability to refurbish, expand or renovate such property to remain compliant, or increase the cost of construction in order to comply with changes in building or zoning codes and regulations. If a tenant is unable to restore a property to its prior use after a substantial casualty loss or is required to comply with more stringent building or zoning codes and regulations, we may be unable to re-lease the space at a comparable effective rent or sell the property at an acceptable price, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. Certain properties are subject to restrictions pursuant to reciprocal easement agreements, operating agreements or similar agreements. Many of the properties that we own or that serve as collateral under our loan agreements are, and properties that we may acquire or lend against in the future may be, subject to use restrictions and/or operational requirements imposed pursuant to ground leases, restrictive covenants or conditions, reciprocal easement agreements or operating agreements or other instruments that could, among other things, adversely affect our ability to lease space to third parties, enforce our rights as a lender and otherwise realize additional value from these properties. Such property restrictions could include the following: limitations on alterations, changes, expansions, or reconfiguration of properties; limitations on use of properties; limitations affecting parking requirements; or restrictions on exterior or interior signage or facades. In certain cases, consent of the other party or parties to 35 such agreements may be required when altering, reconfiguring, expanding or redeveloping. Failure to secure such consents when necessary may harm our ability to execute leasing strategies, which could adversely affect us. The loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success and ability to grow depends, in large part, upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team, particularly our chief executive officer, our president and chief operating officer, our chief financial officer and our general counsel. Any unforeseen loss of our executive officers’ services, or any negative market or industry perception with respect to them or arising from their loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not have key man or similar life insurance policies covering members of our senior management. We have employment agreements with our executive officers, but these agreements do not guarantee that any given executive will remain with us, and there can be no assurance that any such officers will remain with us. In addition, the appointment or replacement of certain key members of our executive management team is subject to regulatory approvals based upon suitability determinations by gaming regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions where our properties are located. If any of our executive officers is found unsuitable by any such gaming regulatory authorities, or if we otherwise lose their services, we would have to find alternative candidates and may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with real estate properties owned by us may materially impair the value of those investments. As an owner of real property, we are subject to various Federal, state and local environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. Although we do not operate or manage most of our properties, as they are subject to triple-net leases, we may be held primarily or jointly and severally liable for costs relating to the investigation and clean-up of any property from which there has been a release or threatened release of a regulated material as well as other affected properties, regardless of whether we knew of or caused the release, and to preserve claims for damages. Further, some environmental laws create a lien on a contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and the costs the government incurs in connection with such contamination. Although under the Lease Agreements the tenants are required to indemnify us for certain environmental liabilities, including environmental liabilities it causes, the amount of such liabilities could exceed the financial ability of the applicable tenants or guarantors to indemnify us. In addition, the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease our properties or to borrow using our properties as collateral. We may be required to contribute insurance proceeds with respect to casualty events at our properties to the lenders under our debt financing agreements. In the event that we were to receive insurance proceeds with respect to a casualty event at any of our properties, we may be required under the terms of our debt financing agreements to contribute all or a portion of those proceeds to the repayment of such debt, which may prevent us from restoring such properties to their prior state. If the remainder of the proceeds (after any such required repayment) were insufficient to make the repairs necessary to restore the damaged properties to a condition substantially equivalent to its state immediately prior to the casualty, we may not have sufficient liquidity to otherwise fund these repairs and may be required to obtain additional financing, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. Climate change may adversely affect our business. Climate change, including rising sea levels, extreme weather and changes in precipitation and temperature, may result in physical damage to, a decrease in demand for and/or a decrease in rent from and value of our properties located in the areas affected by these conditions. For example, we own a number of assets in low-lying areas close to sea level, making those assets susceptible to damage or other negative effects resulting from a rise in sea level. If sea levels were to rise, we may incur material costs to protect such low-lying assets (to the extent not covered by our tenants under the terms of our leases) or may sustain damage, a decrease in value or total loss of such assets. In addition, climate change may result in reduced economic activity in these areas, which could harm the operations of our tenants and reduce the demand at our properties, which could reduce the rent payable to us under our triple-net leases and make it difficult for us to renew or re-lease our properties on favorable lease terms, or at all . Furthermore, our insurance premiums may increase as a result of the threat of climate change or the effects of climate change may not be covered by our insurance policies. In addition, changes in federal and state legislation and regulations on climate change could result in increased capital expenditures to improve the energy efficiency of our existing properties or other related aspects of our properties in order to comply with such regulations or otherwise adapt to climate change. Any of the above could have a material and adverse effect on us. 36 If our separation from CEOC, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. Federal income tax purposes, CEOC could be subject to significant tax liabilities and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify CEOC for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the Tax Matters Agreement. The IRS issued a private letter ruling with respect to certain issues relevant to our separation from CEOC, including relating to the separation and certain related transactions as tax-free for U.S. Federal income tax purposes under certain provisions of the Code. The IRS ruling does not address certain requirements for tax-free treatment of the separation. CEOC received from its tax advisors a tax opinion substantially to the effect that, with respect to such requirements on which the IRS did not rule, such requirements should be satisfied. The IRS ruling and the tax opinion that CEOC received relied on (among other things) certain representations, assumptions and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, and the IRS ruling, and the opinion would not be valid if such representations, assumptions and undertakings were incorrect in any material respect. Notwithstanding the IRS ruling and the tax opinion, the IRS could determine the separation should be treated as a taxable transaction for U.S. Federal income tax purposes if it determines any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the IRS ruling are false or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the IRS ruling. If the reorganization fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, in general, CEOC would be subject to tax as if it had sold our assets to us in a taxable sale for their fair market value, and CEOC’s creditors who received shares of our common stock pursuant to the Plan of Reorganization would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution in respect of their claims equal to the fair market value of such shares. Under the Tax Matters Agreement that we entered into with Caesars, we generally are required to indemnify Caesars against any tax resulting from the separation to the extent that such tax resulted from certain of our representations or undertakings being incorrect or violated. Our indemnification obligations to Caesars are not limited by any maximum amount. As a result, if we are required to indemnify Caesars or such other persons under the circumstances set forth in the Tax Matters Agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. Risks Related to our Status as a REIT We may not qualify or maintain our qualification as a REIT. We elected to be taxed as a REIT for U.S. Federal income tax purposes commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 2017 and expect to operate in a manner that will allow us to continue to be classified as such. The Code generally requires that a REIT distribute annually to its stockholders at least 90% of its REIT taxable income (with certain adjustments), determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gains, and that it pay tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that it distributes annually less than 100% of its REIT taxable income, including capital gains. In addition, a REIT is required to pay a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which the distributions it makes in a calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of its ordinary income, 95% of its capital gain net income and 100% of its undistributed income from prior years. As a result, in order to avoid or otherwise minimize current entity level U.S. Federal income taxes, a substantial portion of our cash flow after operating expenses and debt service will be required to be distributed to our stockholders. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to U.S. Federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and dividends paid to our stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our REIT taxable income. Any resulting corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. Unless we were entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from re-electing to be taxed as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we failed to qualify as a REIT. As a result, the amount available for distribution to holders of equity securities that would otherwise receive dividends would be reduced for the year or years involved. Furthermore, the U.S. Federal income tax consequences of distributions and sales of our shares to certain of our stockholders could be adversely impacted if we were to fail to qualify as a REIT. Finally, our qualification to be taxed as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon our analysis of the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we may not obtain independent appraisals. Any failure to qualify to be taxed as a REIT, or failure to remain to be qualified to be taxed as a REIT, would have a material and adverse effect on us. 37 Qualification to be taxed as a REIT involves highly technical and complex provisions of the Code, and violations of these provisions could jeopardize our REIT qualification. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which only limited judicial and administrative authorities exist. Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize our REIT qualification. Our qualification as a REIT depends on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. In addition, our ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify as a REIT may depend in part on the actions of third parties over which we have no control or only limited influence, including in cases where we own an equity interest in an entity that is classified as a partnership for U.S. Federal income tax purposes. We may in the future choose to pay dividends in the form of our own common stock, in which case stockholders may be required to pay income taxes in excess of the cash dividends they receive. We may seek in the future to distribute taxable dividends that are payable in cash or our common stock. Taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for U.S. Federal income tax purposes as to which non-corporate stockholders will generally be eligible for a deduction equal to 20% of such distributions. As a result, stockholders receiving dividends in the form of common stock may be required to pay income taxes with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received, if any. If a U.S. stockholder sells the common stock that it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our common stock at the time of the sale. In addition, in such case, a U.S. stockholder could have a capital loss with respect to the common stock sold that could not be used to offset such dividend income. Moreover, with respect to certain non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. Federal income tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in common stock. Furthermore, such a taxable share dividend could be viewed as equivalent to a reduction in our cash distributions, and that factor, as well as the possibility that a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, may put downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. Changes to the U.S. Federal income tax laws, including the enactment of certain tax reform measures, could have a material and adverse effect on us. U.S. federal income tax laws governing REITs and other corporations and the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended at any time, potentially with retroactive effect. We cannot predict whether, when or to what extent new U.S. federal tax laws, regulations, interpretations or rulings will be issued. Prospective investors are urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the effect of potential changes to the U.S. Federal tax laws on an investment in our common stock. Changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws could have a material and adverse effect on us. For example, certain changes in law pursuant to the law known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could reduce the relative competitive advantage of operating as a REIT as compared with operating as a C corporation, including by: • reducing the rate of tax applicable to individuals and C corporations, which could reduce the relative attractiveness of the generally single level of taxation on REIT distributions; • permitting immediate expensing of capital expenditures, which could likewise reduce the relative attractiveness of the REIT taxation regime; and • limiting the deductibility of interest expense, which could increase the distribution requirement of REITs (though REITs can generally elect out of the limitation). We could fail to qualify to be taxed as a REIT if income we receive from our tenants is not treated as qualifying income. Under applicable provisions of the Code, we will not be treated as a REIT unless we satisfy various requirements, including requirements relating to the sources of our gross income. Rents received or accrued by us from our tenants will not be treated as qualifying rent for purposes of these requirements if the leases are not respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes and instead are treated as service contracts, joint ventures, financings or some other type of arrangement. If some or all of our leases are not respected as true leases for U.S. Federal income tax purposes, we may fail to qualify to be taxed as a REIT. Furthermore, our qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon our analysis of the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we may not obtain independent appraisals. 38 In addition, subject to certain exceptions, rents received or accrued by us from any tenant (or affiliated tenants) will not be treated as qualifying rent for purposes of these requirements if we (or an actual or constructive owner of 10% or more of our stock) actually or constructively owns 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of such tenant’s stock entitled to vote or 10% or more of the total value of all classes of such tenant’s stock. Our charter provides restrictions on ownership and transfer of our shares of stock, including restrictions on such ownership or transfer that would cause the rents received or accrued by us from tenants to be treated as non-qualifying rent for purposes of the REIT gross income requirements. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that such restrictions will be effective in ensuring that rents received or accrued by us from tenants will not be treated as qualifying rent for purposes of REIT qualification requirements. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan. We generally must distribute annually to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (with certain adjustments), determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gains, in order for us to qualify as a REIT so that U.S. Federal corporate income tax does not apply to our earnings that we distribute. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement and qualify for taxation as a REIT but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and including any net capital gains, we will be subject to U.S. Federal corporate income tax on any undistributed portion of such taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we distribute to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under U.S. Federal tax laws. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the Code and to avoid or otherwise minimize paying entity level Federal or excise tax (other than at any taxable REIT subsidiary of ours). We may generate taxable income greater than our income for financial reporting purposes prepared in accordance with GAAP. Further, we may generate taxable income greater than our cash flow from operations after operating expenses and debt service as a result of differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash or the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. In order to avoid or otherwise minimize current entity level U.S. Federal income taxes, we will generally be required to distribute sufficient cash flow after operating expenses and debt service payments to satisfy the REIT distribution requirements. While we intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the Code, we may not have sufficient liquidity to meet the REIT distribution requirements. If our cash flow is insufficient to satisfy the REIT distribution requirements, we could be required to raise capital on unfavorable terms, sell assets at disadvantageous prices, distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions or issue dividends in the form of shares of our common stock to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our REIT taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid or otherwise minimize corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or change the value of our equity. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain U.S. Federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income and state or local income, property and transfer taxes. For example, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, we currently hold and expect in the future to hold some of our assets and conduct certain of our activities through one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries or other subsidiary corporations that will be subject to Federal, state, and local corporate-level income taxes as regular C corporations (i.e., corporations generally subject to corporate-level income tax under Subchapter C of Chapter 1 the Code). In addition, we may incur a 100% excise tax on transactions with a taxable REIT subsidiary if they are not conducted on an arm’s length basis. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to liquidate or forgo otherwise attractive opportunities and limit our expansion opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, our sources of income, the nature of our investments in real estate and related assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may also be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. As a REIT, we must ensure that, at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and “real estate assets” (as defined in the Code), including certain mortgage loans and securities. The remainder of our investments (other than government securities, qualified real estate assets and securities issued by a taxable REIT subsidiary) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our total assets (other than government securities, qualified real estate assets and securities issued by a taxable REIT 39 subsidiary) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 20% of the value of our total assets can be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. In addition, not more than 25% of our total assets may be represented by debt instruments issued by publicly offered REITs that are “nonqualified” debt instruments. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate from our portfolio, or contribute to a taxable REIT subsidiary, or forgo otherwise attractive investments in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition to the asset tests set forth above, to qualify as a REIT we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may be unable to pursue investments that would be otherwise advantageous to us in order to satisfy the source-of-income or asset-diversification requirements for qualifying as a REIT. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments. We may be subject to built-in gains tax on the disposition of certain of our properties. If we acquire certain properties in tax-deferred transactions, which properties were held by one or more C corporations before they were held by us, we may be subject to a built-in gain tax on future disposition of such properties. This is the case with respect to all or substantially all of the properties acquired from CEOC pursuant to the formation transactions as well as certain other properties we have acquired and may acquire in the future. If we dispose of any such properties during the five-year period following acquisition of the properties from the respective C corporation (i.e., during the five-year period following ownership of such properties by a REIT), we will be subject to U.S. Federal income tax (and applicable state and local taxes) at the highest corporate tax rates on any gain recognized from the disposition of such properties to the extent of the excess of the fair market value of the properties on the date that they were contributed to or acquired by us in a tax-deferred transaction over the adjusted tax basis of such properties on such date, which are referred to as built-in gains. Similarly, if we recognize certain other income considered to be built-in income during the five-year period following the property acquisitions described above, we could be subject to U.S. Federal tax under the built-in-gains tax rules. We would be subject to this corporate-level tax liability (without the benefit of the deduction for dividends paid) even if we qualify and maintain our status as a REIT. Any recognized built-in gain will retain its character as ordinary income or capital gain and will be taken into account in determining REIT taxable income and the REIT distribution requirements. Any tax on the recognized built-in gain will reduce REIT taxable income. We may choose to forego otherwise attractive opportunities to sell assets in a taxable transaction during the five-year built-in-gain recognition period in order to avoid this built-in-gain tax. However, there can be no assurance that such a taxable transaction will not occur. The amount of any such built-in-gain tax could be material and the resulting tax liability could have a negative effect on our cash flow and limit our ability to pay distributions required to qualify and maintain our status as a REIT. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities. The REIT provisions of the Code substantially limit our ability to hedge our assets and liabilities. Income from certain hedging transactions that we may enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets or from transactions to manage risk of currency fluctuations with respect to any item of income or gain that satisfy the REIT gross income tests (including gain from the termination of such a transaction) does not constitute “gross income” for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests that apply to REITs, provided that certain identification requirements are met. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions or fail to properly identify such transaction as a hedge, the income is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may be required to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a taxable REIT subsidiary. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because the taxable REIT subsidiary may be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates that we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in the taxable REIT subsidiary will generally not provide any tax benefit, except that such losses could theoretically be carried back or forward against past or future taxable income of the taxable REIT subsidiary. If we are required to make a purging distribution, we may pay such purging distribution in a combination of common stock and cash. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute any “earnings and profits,” as defined in the Code, accumulated by us during any period for which we did not qualify as a REIT or by any entity whose accumulated earnings and profits we acquire during any period for which such entity did not qualify as a REIT. Such distribution requirement applied to any earnings and profits that were allocated from CEOC to us in connection with the formation transactions by the end of the first taxable year in which we elected REIT status. Based on our analysis, we do not believe that any earnings and profits were allocated to us in connection with the formation transactions or any other transaction to which we are party and therefore did not make a purging distribution and do not currently intend to make any purging distribution, with respect to transactions to which we are a party. If 40 we are required to make a purging distribution in the future, we may pay the purging distribution to our stockholders in a combination of cash and shares of our common stock. Each of our stockholders will be permitted to elect to receive the stockholder’s entire entitlement under the purging distribution in either cash or shares of our common stock, subject to a cash limitation. If our stockholders elect to receive a portion of cash in excess of the cash limitation, each such electing stockholder will receive a pro rata portion of cash corresponding to the stockholder’s respective entitlement under the purging distribution declaration. The IRS has issued a revenue procedure that provides that, so long as a REIT complied with certain provisions therein, certain distributions that are paid partly in cash and partly in stock will be treated as taxable dividends that would satisfy the REIT distribution requirements and qualify for the dividends paid deduction for U.S. Federal income tax purposes. In a purging distribution, if any, a stockholder of our common stock will be required to report dividend income equal to the amount of cash and common stock received as a result of the purging distribution even though we may distribute no cash or only nominal amounts of cash to such stockholder. The cash available for distribution to stockholders may not be sufficient to pay dividends at expected levels, nor can we assure you of our ability to make distributions in the future. We may use borrowed funds to make distributions. If cash available for distribution is less than the amount necessary to make cash distributions, our inability to make the expected distributions could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon various factors, including, but not limited to: our historical and projected financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and REIT taxable income, limitations contained in financing instruments, debt service requirements, operating cash inflows and outflows, including capital expenditures and acquisitions, limitations on our ability to use cash generated in one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries, if any, to fund distributions and applicable law. We may not be able to make distributions in the future. In addition, some of our distributions may include a return of capital. To the extent that we decide to make distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits in the future, such distributions would generally be considered a return of capital for Federal income tax purposes to the extent of the holder’s adjusted tax basis in their shares. A return of capital is not taxable, but it has the effect of reducing the holder’s adjusted tax basis in our common stock. To the extent that such distributions exceed the adjusted tax basis of a holder’s shares, they will be treated as gain from the sale or exchange of such stock. If we borrow to fund distributions, our future interest costs would increase, thereby reducing our earnings and cash available for distribution from what they otherwise would have been. For purposes of satisfying the minimum distribution requirement to qualify for and maintain REIT status, our REIT taxable income will be calculated without reference to our cash flow. Consequently, under certain circumstances, we may not have available cash to make our required distributions, and we may need to raise additional equity or debt in order to fund our intended distributions, or we may distribute a portion of our distributions in the form of our common stock or debt instruments, which could result in dilution or higher leverage. While the IRS has issued a revenue procedure indicating that certain distributions that are made partly in cash and partly in stock will be treated as taxable dividends that would satisfy that REIT annual distribution requirement and qualify for the dividends paid deduction for U.S. Federal income tax purposes, no assurance can be provided that we will be able to satisfy the requirements of the revenue procedure. Therefore, it is unclear whether and to what extent we will be able to make taxable dividends payable in-kind. In addition, to the extent we were to make distributions that include our common stock or debt instruments, a stockholder of ours will be required to report dividend income as a result of such distributions even though we distributed no cash or only nominal amounts of cash to such stockholder. The U.S. Federal income tax treatment of the cash that we might receive from cash settlement of the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement is unclear and could jeopardize our ability to meet the REIT qualification requirements. In the event that we elect to settle the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement for cash and the settlement price is below the applicable forward sale price, we would be entitled to receive a cash payment from the forward purchasers. Under Section 1032 of the Code, generally, no gains and losses are recognized by a corporation in dealing in its own shares, including pursuant to a “securities futures contract,” as defined in the Code by reference to the Exchange Act. Although we believe that any amount received by us in exchange for our shares of common stock would qualify for the exemption under Section 1032 of the Code, because it is not entirely clear whether the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement qualifies as a “securities futures contract,” the U.S. Federal income tax treatment of any cash settlement payment we receive is uncertain. In the event that we recognize a significant gain from the cash settlement of the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement, we might not be able to satisfy the gross income requirements applicable to REITs under the Code. If we were to fail to satisfy one or both of the gross income tests for any taxable year, we may nevertheless qualify as a REIT for such year if we were entitled to relief under certain provisions of the Code. If these relief provisions were inapplicable, we would not qualify as a REIT. Even if these relief provisions were to apply, a tax based on the amount of the relevant REIT’s non-qualifying income would be imposed. 41 Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure VICI is a holding company with no direct operations and relies on distributions received from the Operating Partnership to make distributions to its stockholders. VICI is a holding company and conducts its operations through subsidiaries, including the Operating Partnership and VICI Golf. VICI does not have, apart from the units that it owns in the Operating Partnership and VICI Golf, any independent operations. As a result, VICI relies on distributions from its Operating Partnership to make any distributions to its stockholders it might declare on its common stock and to meet any of its obligations, including any tax liability on taxable income allocated to it from the Operating Partnership (which might not be able to make distributions to VICI equal to the tax on such allocated taxable income). In turn, the ability of subsidiaries of the Operating Partnership to make distributions to the Operating Partnership, and therefore, the ability of the Operating Partnership to make distributions to VICI, depends on the operating results of these subsidiaries and the Operating Partnership and on the terms of any financing arrangements they have entered into. In addition, because VICI is a holding company, claims of common stockholders of VICI are structurally subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and other obligations (whether or not for borrowed money) and any preferred equity of the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries. Therefore, in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, VICI’s assets and those of the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries will be available to satisfy the claims of VICI common stockholders only after all of VICI’s, the Operating Partnership’s and its subsidiaries’ liabilities and other obligations and any preferred equity of any of them have been paid in full. The Operating Partnership may, in connection with its acquisition of additional properties or otherwise, issue additional common units or preferred units to third parties. Such issuances would reduce VICI’s ownership in the Operating Partnership. Because stockholders of VICI do not directly own common units or preferred units of the Operating Partnership, they do not have any voting rights with respect to any such issuances or other partnership level activities of the Operating Partnership. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited. The Maryland General Corporation Law (the “MGCL”) provides that a director has no liability in any action based on an act of the director if he or she has acted in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in the corporation’s best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. As permitted by the MGCL, our charter limits the liability of our directors and officers to our company and our stockholders for money damages, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. Under Maryland law, our present directors and officers will not have any liability to us or our stockholders for money damages other than liability resulting from: • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or • a final judgment based upon a finding that his or her action or failure to act was the result of active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer and was material to the cause of action adjudicated. Our charter provides that we have the power to obligate ourselves, and our amended and restated bylaws obligate us, to indemnify our directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities and to pay or reimburse their reasonable expenses in advance of final disposition of a proceeding to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and executive officers that provide for indemnification and advancement of expenses to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist under common law. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent an acquisition of our common stock or a change in control. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions, the exercise or existence of which could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our stockholders or otherwise be in their best interests, including the following: • Our charter contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our stock. In order for us to qualify as a REIT, no more than 50% of the value of outstanding shares of our stock may be owned, beneficially or constructively, by five or fewer individuals (or certain other persons) at any time during the last half of each taxable year (“closely held”). Subject to certain exceptions, our charter prohibits any stockholder from owning beneficially or constructively, with respect to any class or series of our capital stock, more than 9.8% (in value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the aggregate of the outstanding shares of such class or series of our capital stock. 42 The constructive ownership rules under the Code are complex and may cause the outstanding stock owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. As a result, the acquisition of 9.8% or less of the outstanding shares of a class or series of our stock by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity or another individual or entity to own constructively in excess of the relevant ownership limits. Among other restrictions on ownership and transfer of shares, our charter also prohibits any person from owning shares of our stock that would result in our being “closely held” under Section 856(h) of the Code or otherwise cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our common stock or of any of our other capital stock in violation of these restrictions may result in the shares being automatically transferred to a charitable trust or may be void. Our charter provides that our board may grant exceptions to the 9.8% ownership limit, subject in each case to certain initial and ongoing conditions designed to protect our status as a REIT. These ownership limits may prevent a third-party from acquiring control of us if our board of directors does not grant an exemption from the ownership limits, even if our stockholders believe the change in control is in their best interests. An exemption from the 9.8% ownership limit has previously been granted to certain stockholders, and our board may in the future provide exceptions to the ownership limit for other stockholders, subject to the aforementioned initial and ongoing conditions designed to protect our status as a REIT. • Our board of directors has the power to cause us to issue and authorize additional shares of our capital stock without stockholder approval. Our charter authorizes us to issue authorized but unissued shares of common or preferred stock in addition to the shares of common stock issued and outstanding. In addition, our board of directors may, without stockholder approval, amend our charter to increase the aggregate number of our shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue and classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common or preferred stock and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our board of directors may establish a class or series of shares of common or preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our shares of common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Certain provisions of Maryland law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us. Certain provisions of the MGCL may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from acquiring us or of impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our common stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price of such shares, including: • “business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, (a) prohibit certain business combinations between an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding shares of voting stock or an affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our then outstanding shares of our common stock) or an affiliate of any interested stockholder and us for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and (b) thereafter impose two super-majority stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and • “control share” provisions that provide that holders of “control shares” of our company (defined as voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned or controlled by the acquirer (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquirer to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights with respect to “control shares” except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all votes entitled to be cast by the acquirer of control shares, and by any of our officers and employees who are also our directors. Our charter provides that, notwithstanding any other provision of our charter or our bylaws, the Maryland Business Combination Act (Title 3, Subtitle 6 of the MGCL) does not apply to any business combination between us and any interested stockholder or any affiliate of any interested stockholder of ours and that we expressly elect not to be governed by the provisions of Section 3-602 of the MGCL in whole or in part. Pursuant to the MGCL, our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act any and all acquisitions by any person of shares of our stock. There can be no assurance that any of these provisions of our charter or bylaws will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. Additionally, provisions of Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL permit a Maryland corporation such as the Company, by action of its board of directors and without stockholder approval and regardless of what is provided in the charter or bylaws, to elect to avail itself of certain takeover defenses, such as a classified board, unless the charter or a resolution adopted by the board of 43 directors prohibits such election. Our charter provides that we are prohibited from making any such election unless first approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of a majority of all votes entitled to be cast on the matter. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Provisions contained in the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement could result in substantial dilution to our earnings per share or result in substantial cash payment obligations. The forward purchaser under the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement has the right to accelerate the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement (with respect to all or, in certain cases, any portion of the transaction under the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement that the forward purchaser determines is affected by an event described below) and require us to settle on a date specified by the forward purchaser if: • we declare any dividend, issue or distribution on our common stock payable in (x) cash in excess of specified amounts, (y) securities of another company that we acquire or own (directly or indirectly) as a result of a spin-off or similar transaction or (z) any other type of securities (other than our common stock), rights, warrants or other assets for payment at less than the prevailing market price; • certain ownership thresholds applicable to the forward purchaser and its affiliate are exceeded; • an event (x) is announced that, if consummated, would result in a specified extraordinary event (including certain mergers or tender offers, certain events involving our nationalization, or insolvency, or a delisting of our common shares) or (y) occurs that would constitute a delisting or change in law; or • certain other events of default or termination events occur, including, among others, any material misrepresentation made in connection with the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement or our insolvency (each as more fully described in the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement). The forward purchaser’s decision to exercise its right to accelerate the settlement of the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement will be made irrespective of our interests, including our need for capital. In such cases, we could be required to issue and deliver shares of our common stock under the physical settlement provisions of the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement, which would result in dilution to our earnings per share. We expect to physically settle the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement and receive proceeds from the sale of those shares of our common stock upon one or more forward settlement dates no later than June 17, 2021. However, the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement may be settled earlier in whole or in part at our option. Subject to certain conditions, we have the right to elect physical, cash or net share settlement under the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement at any time and from time to time, in part or in full. The June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement will be physically settled by delivery of shares of our common stock, unless we elect to cash settle or net share settle the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement. Delivery of shares of our common stock upon physical settlement (or, if we elect net share settlement, upon such settlement to the extent we are obligated to deliver shares of our common stock) will result in dilution to our earnings per share. If we elect cash settlement or net share settlement with respect to all or a portion of the shares of our common stock underlying the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement, we expect the forward purchaser (or its affiliate) to purchase a number of shares of our common stock in secondary market transactions over an unwind period to: (i) return shares of our common stock to securities lenders in order to unwind its hedge (after taking into consideration any shares of our common stock to be delivered by us to the forward purchaser, in the case of net share settlement); and (ii) if applicable, in the case of net share settlement, deliver shares of our common stock to us to the extent required in settlement of the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement. The purchase of shares of our common stock in connection with the forward purchaser or its affiliate unwinding its hedge position could cause the price of shares of our common stock to increase over such time (or reduce the amount of a decrease over such time), thereby increasing the amount of cash we would be required to pay to the forward purchaser (or decreasing the amount of cash that the forward purchaser would be required to pay us) upon a cash settlement of the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement or increasing the number of shares of common stock we would be required to deliver to the forward purchaser (or decreasing the number of shares of common stock that the forward purchaser would be required to deliver to us) upon net share settlement of the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement. The forward sale price that we expect to receive upon physical settlement of the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement will be subject to adjustment on a daily basis based on a floating interest rate factor determined by reference to a specified daily rate less a spread and will be decreased by amounts related to expected dividends on our common stock during the term of the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement. If the specified daily rate is less than the spread on any day, the interest rate factor will result in a reduction of the forward sale price for that day. As of June 16, 2020, the date of the prospectus supplement governing the offering of our common stock pursuant to the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement, the specified daily rate was less than the 44 spread, reducing the proceeds that we would receive upon settlement of the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement. If the prevailing market price for our common stock during the unwind period under the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement is above the forward sale price, in the case of cash settlement, we would pay the forward purchaser an amount per share in cash equal to the difference or, in the case of net share settlement, we would deliver to the forward purchaser a number of shares of common stock having a value equal to the difference. Thus, we could be responsible for a potentially substantial cash payment in the case of cash settlement. In case of our bankruptcy or insolvency, the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement would automatically terminate, and we would not receive the expected proceeds from the sale of common stock under such agreement. If we institute, or a regulatory authority with jurisdiction over us institutes, or we consent to, a proceeding seeking a judgment in bankruptcy or insolvency or any other relief under any bankruptcy or insolvency law or other similar law affecting creditors’ rights, or we or a regulatory authority with jurisdiction over us presents a petition for our winding-up or liquidation, or we consent to such a petition, the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement will automatically terminate. If the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement so terminates, we would not be obligated to deliver to the forward purchaser any shares of common stock not previously delivered, and the forward purchaser would be discharged from its obligation to pay the forward sale price per share in respect of any shares of common stock not previously settled. Therefore, to the extent that there are any shares of common stock with respect to which the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement has not been settled at the time of the commencement of any such bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings, we would not receive the forward sale price per share in respect of those shares of common stock. General Risk Factors If we fail to establish and maintain an effective system of integrated internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately, which could have a material adverse effect on us. As a reporting company, we are required to design and implement substantial control systems, policies and procedures in order to satisfy our periodic SEC reporting requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement these systems, policies and procedures and to operate our company or that any such implementation will be effective. Failure to do so could jeopardize our status as a REIT or as a reporting company, and the loss of such statuses would materially and adversely affect us. If we fail to implement or maintain proper overall business controls, including as required to support our growth, our operating and financial results could be harmed, or we could fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, the existence of a material weakness or significant deficiency could result in errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement, cause us to fail to meet our SEC reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on us and on the market price of our common stock. We face risks associated with security breaches through cyber-attacks, cyber-intrusions or otherwise, as well as other significant disruptions of our information technology (IT) networks and related systems. We face risks associated with security breaches, whether through cyber-attacks or cyber-intrusions over the internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside our organization or persons with access to systems inside our organization, and other significant disruptions of our IT networks and related systems. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber-attack or cyber-intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. Our IT networks and related systems are essential to the operation of our business and our ability to perform day-to-day operations, including due to increased remote access and operations in 2020 due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Although we make efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of IT networks and related systems, and we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. A security breach or other significant disruption involving our IT networks and related systems could disrupt the proper functioning of our networks and systems; result in misstated financial reports, violations of loan covenants and/or missed reporting deadlines; result in our inability to monitor our compliance with the rules and regulations regarding our qualification as a REIT; result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or others, which others could use to compete against us or for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes; require significant management attention and resources to remedy any damages that result; subject us to claims for breach of contract, damages, credits, penalties or termination of certain agreements; or damage our reputation among our tenants and investors generally. Any or all of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions with respect to, and the market price of, our common stock. 45 Our board of directors may change our major corporate policies without stockholder approval and those changes may materially and adversely affect us. Our board of directors will determine and may eliminate or otherwise change our major corporate policies, including our acquisition, investment, financing, growth, operations and distribution policies. While our stockholders have the power to elect or remove directors, changes in our major corporate policies may be made by our board of directors without stockholder approval and those changes could adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects, the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and to satisfy our debt service requirements. The market price and trading volume of shares of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the stock markets generally may experience significant volatility, often unrelated to the operating performance of the individual companies whose securities are publicly traded. The trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. If the market price or trading volume of our common stock declines, you may be unable to sell your shares at a profit, or at all. Some of the factors, many of which are beyond our control, that could negatively affect the market price of our common stock or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations or distributions; • changes in our earnings, Funds From Operations (“FFO”) or Adjusted Funds From Operations (“AFFO”) estimates; • publication of research reports about us, our tenants or the real estate or gaming industries; • adverse developments involving our tenants; • changes in market interest rates that may cause purchasers of our shares to demand a different yield; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • market reaction to any additional capital we raise in the future, including availability and attractiveness of long-term debt financing in connection with future acquisitions; • our failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of our recently completed or future acquisitions within the timeframe or to the extent anticipated by financial or industry analysts; • additions or departures of key personnel; • reaction to any other of our public announcements; • sales or potential sales of our common stock by us or our significant stockholders; • other actions by institutional stockholders; • strategic actions taken by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions; • speculation in the press or investment community about us, our tenants, our industry or the economy in general; • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business and operations or the gaming industry; • changes in tax or accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • the occurrence of any of the other risk factors presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other SEC filings; and • adverse conditions in the financial markets or general U.S. or international economic conditions, including those resulting from war, acts of terrorism, public health crises, and responses to such events. We may be adversely affected by changes in LIBOR reporting practices, the method in which LIBOR is determined or the use of alternative reference rates. Our indebtedness under the Term Loan B Facility and Revolving Credit Facility bears interest at variable interest rates that use LIBOR as a benchmark rate. On November 30, 2020, the ICE Benchmark Administration (“IBA”) announced that it intends to publish one-week and two-month USD LIBORsettings until December 31, 2021, and the remaining USD LIBOR settings until the end of June 2023.  The IBA announcement was supported by similar announcements from the United Kingdom’s Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”), which regulates LIBOR, and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (collectively, the “U.S. Regulators”). Both the FCA and the U.S. Regulators in their announcements also encouraged banks to cease entering into new contracts referencing USD LIBOR after December 2021. These announcements indicate that the continuation of LIBOR on the current basis may not 46 be assured after 2021. As such, LIBOR may cease to exist or otherwise be unsuitable for use as a benchmark. A change or transition away from LIBOR as a common reference rate in the global financial market could have a material, adverse effect on our business. Recent proposals for LIBOR reforms may result in the establishment of new methods of calculating LIBOR or the establishment of one or more alternative benchmark rates. The Alternative Reference Rates Committee, which was convened by the Federal Reserve Board and the New York Federal Reserve Bank, has identified the Secured Oversight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) as the recommended risk-free alternative rate for USD LIBOR. However, the composition and characteristics of SOFR are not the same as those of LIBOR. SOFR is a secured rate, while LIBOR is an unsecured rate, and SOFR is an overnight rate, while LIBOR is a forward-looking rate that represents interbank funding over different maturities. While market participants, including the International Swaps and Derivatives Association (“ISDA”), have proposed certain methods to interpolate and transition between LIBOR and SOFR, there can be no assurance that SOFR (including a term SOFR or compounded SOFR) will perform in the same way as LIBOR would have at any time, including, without limitation, as a result of changes in interest and yield rates in the market, market volatility or global or regional economic, financial, political, regulatory, judicial or other events. If LIBOR ceases to exist, we cannot predict whether SOFR or another successor rate would be utilized or the impact of such rate on us and we may determine that we need to negotiate an amendment to our Term Loan B Facility and Revolving Credit Facility with our lenders, and to our hedging arrangements. While ISDA has proposed SOFR as the fallback benchmark rate for dollar-denominated derivative instruments currently utilizing the USD LIBOR benchmark rate, there is still some uncertainty as to the implementation of a replacement in the loan markets, in particular when and how such a replacement will be implemented in the loan market. While the loan market may eventually generally adopt SOFR as the replacement for LIBOR, there can be no assurance as to the timing of such adoption and any differences in the timing of adoption of SOFR between the loan and hedge market as well as differences in methodology and valuation can lead to mismatches in hedging, which could result in changes to our risk exposure, adverse tax or accounting effects, increased compliance and legal and operational costs. As a result, our interest expense may increase and our ability to refinance some or all of our existing indebtedness and our available cash flow may be adversely affected. Future incurrences of debt, which would be senior to our shares of common stock upon liquidation, and/or issuance of preferred equity securities, which may be senior to our shares of common stock for purposes of distributions or upon liquidation, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by incurring additional debt, including medium-term notes, trust preferred securities and senior or subordinated notes, or issuing preferred shares. If a liquidation event were to occur, holders of our debt securities and preferred shares and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our shares of common stock. In addition, our preferred stock, if issued, would likely limit our ability to make liquidating or other distributions to the holders of shares of our common stock under certain circumstances. Any future common stock offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of shares of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. Since our decision to issue debt securities, incur other forms of indebtedness or to issue additional common stock or preferred stock in the future will depend on future developments, market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, nature or success of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our issuing senior securities, incurring other senior obligations or issuing additional common stock in the future, which may reduce the market price of shares of our common stock, reduce cash available for distribution to common stockholders or dilute their stockholdings in us. The number of shares available for future sale could adversely affect the market price of shares of our common stock. We cannot predict whether future issuances of our shares or the availability of shares of our common stock for resale in the open market will decrease the market price per share of shares of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could adversely affect the market price of shares of our common stock. If any of our stockholders cause, or there is a perception that they may cause, a large number of their shares to be sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the market price of shares of our common stock and could impede our ability to raise future capital. Our earnings and cash distributions could affect the market price of shares of our common stock. Our common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net asset value per share. To the extent that we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes rather than distributing the cash flows to stockholders, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may negatively impact the market price of shares of our common stock. Our failure to meet market expectations with regard to future earnings and cash distributions could adversely affect the market price of shares of our common stock. 47

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with the audited consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto of VICI Properties Inc. and other financial information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis or set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including information with respect to our business and growth strategies, statements regarding the industry outlook and our expectations regarding the future performance of our business contained herein are forward-looking statements. See “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” You should also review the section in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by such forward-looking statements . OVERVIEW We are a Maryland corporation that is primarily engaged in the business of owning and acquiring gaming, hospitality and entertainment destinations. We lease our properties to subsidiaries of Caesars, Penn National, Hard Rock, Century Casinos and JACK Entertainment, with Caesars being our largest tenant. We conduct our real property business through an operating partnership and our golf course business through a TRS, VICI Golf LLC. The financial information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are our consolidated results (including the real property business and the golf course business) for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018. Key 2020 Highlights Operating Results • Collected 100% of rent in cash. • Total revenues increased 37.0% year-over-year to $1.2 billion. • Net income attributable to common stockholders was $891.7 million, or $1.75 per diluted share. • AFFO increased 28.7% year-over-year to $835.8 million and AFFO per diluted share increased 10.8% to $1.64. Acquisition and Investment Activity • Completed $4.6 billion of acquisitions and investments, including: ◦ Acquisition of the real estate assets of Harrah’s New Orleans, Harrah’s Laughlin, and Harrah’s Atlantic City and modification of certain provisions of the Caesars Lease Agreements in connection with the Eldorado/Caesars Merger for total consideration of approximately $3.2 billion; and ◦ Acquisition of the real estate assets of JACK Cleveland/Thistledown for total consideration of approximately $843.3 million. ◦ Originated $575.0 million of mortgage loan investments, including our first investment outside of gaming through an $80.0 million mortgage loan secured by Chelsea Piers New York, a sports and entertainment complex located in New York City. • Added $318.4 million of contractual rent on an annualized basis to our real estate portfolio. Capital Markets and Financing Activity • Increased our quarterly cash dividend to $0.33 per share (or $1.32 per share on an annualized basis), representing a 10.9% increase compared to our previous quarterly dividend. • Completed an equity offering in which 29,900,000 shares were sold through a forward sale agreement at $22.15 per share, raising gross proceeds of $662.3 million, with 3,000,000 shares subsequently settled for net proceeds to us of approximately $63.0 million and 26,900,000 shares remaining for settlement under the forward sale agreement. • Settled all 65,000,000 shares of the Company's outstanding June 2019 forward sale agreements for net proceeds of approximately $1.3 billion. • Issued 7,500,000 shares under the Company’s ATM Program for net proceeds of approximately $200.0 million • Issued $2.5 billion of Senior Unsecured Notes at a blended and weighted average interest rate of 3.83% and used $500.0 million of those proceeds to redeem our 8% Second Lien Notes that were scheduled to mature in 2023. • Repriced our Term Loan B Facility and lowered the interest rate from L + 2.00% to L + 1.75%. 51 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT 2020 ACTIVITIES Acquisition and Investment Activity • Caesars Forum Convention Center Mortgage Loan. On September 18, 2020, we provided a $400.0 million mortgage loan to Caesars that is secured by the Caesars Forum Convention Center. The loan bears interest at an initial rate of 7.7%, has a term of five years and is prepayable beginning in year three, subject to certain conditions. The Caesars Forum Convention Center is subject to the A&R Convention Center Put-Call Agreement between Caesars and us, with our call option being accelerated to 2025 in connection with the entry into the mortgage loan. • Chelsea Piers Mortgage Loan. On August 31, 2020, we entered into an $80.0 million mortgage loan agreement with Chelsea Piers New York (“Chelsea Piers”) secured by the Chelsea Piers complex in New York City, pursuant to which we provided an initial $65.0 million term loan and a $15.0 million delayed draw term loan (which remains undrawn), subject to certain conditions. The loan bears interest at a rate of 7.0% per annum and has a term of seven years. • Consummation of the Eldorado Transaction. On July 20, 2020, concurrent with the consummation of the Eldorado/Caesars Merger, we consummated the Eldorado Transaction contemplated by the Master Transaction Agreement and associated agreements. The closing of the Eldorado Transaction includes the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the below described agreements. Refer to for further details. ◦ Acquisition of the MTA Properties. We acquired all of the land and real estate assets associated with Harrah’s New Orleans, Harrah’s Laughlin and Harrah’s Atlantic City (collectively, the “MTA Properties”) for an aggregate purchase price of $1,823.5 million (the “MTA Properties Acquisitions”). The Regional Master Lease Agreement was amended to, among other things, include each such property, with initial aggregate total annual rent payable to us increased by $154.0 million to $621.7 million, to extend the initial lease term to July 2035 and to adjust certain minimum capital expenditure requirements and other related terms and conditions as a result of the MTA Properties being included in the Regional Master Lease Agreement. ◦ Creation of Las Vegas Master Lease. In consideration of a payment by us to (i) the tenant under the CPLV Lease Agreement of $1,189.9 million (the “CPLV Lease Amendment Payment”) and (ii) the tenant under the HLV Lease Agreement of $213.8 million (the “HLV Lease Amendment Payment”), upon the consummation of the Eldorado Transaction, (a) the CPLV Lease Agreement was amended to (A) combine the CPLV Lease Agreement and the HLV Lease Agreement into a single Las Vegas Master Lease Agreement, (B) increase the annual rent payable to us thereunder associated with Caesars Palace Las Vegas by $83.5 million (the “CPLV Additional Rent Acquisition”), (C) increase the annual rent payable to us thereunder with respect to the Harrah’s Las Vegas property by $15.0 million (the “HLV Additional Rent Acquisition”) and (D) provide for the amended terms described below, and (b) the HLV Lease Agreement and the related lease guaranty were terminated. As a result of such amendments, the Harrah’s Las Vegas property is also now subject to the higher rent escalator under the Las Vegas Master Lease Agreement. • Lease Amendments and Terminations. Each of the Caesars Lease Agreements was amended to, among other things, (i) remove the rent coverage floors, which coverage floors served to reduce the rent escalators under such leases in the event that the “EBITDAR to Rent Ratio” (as defined in the applicable Caesars Lease Agreements) coverage was below the stated floor and (ii) extend the term of each such lease to July 2035 to ensure that each lease will have a full 15-year initial lease term following the consummation of the Eldorado Transaction. • Centaur Properties Put-Call Agreement . Prior to the consummation of the Eldorado Transaction, we were party to a right of first refusal agreement with affiliates of Pre-Merger Caesars with respect to the Centaur Properties. Upon the consummation of the Eldorado Transaction, the right of first refusal agreement terminated, and we entered into the Centaur Put-Call Agreement, whereby (i) we have the right to acquire all of the land and real estate assets associated with the Centaur Properties at a price equal to 13.0x the initial annual rent of each facility (determined as provided below), and to simultaneously lease back each such property to a subsidiary of Caesars for initial annual rent equal to the property’s trailing four quarters EBITDA at the time of acquisition divided by 1.3 (i.e., the initial annual rent will be set at 1.3x rent coverage) and (ii) Caesars will have the right to require us to acquire the Centaur Properties at a price equal to 12.5x the initial annual rent of each facility, and to simultaneously lease back each such Centaur Property to a subsidiary of Caesars for initial annual rent equal to the property’s trailing four quarters EBITDA at the time of acquisition divided by 1.3 (i.e., the initial annual rent will be set at 1.3x rent coverage). Either party will be able to trigger its respective put or call, as applicable, beginning on January 1, 2022 and ending on December 31, 2024. The Centaur Put-Call Agreement provides that the leaseback of the Centaur Properties will be 52 implemented through the addition of the Centaur Properties to the Regional Master Lease Agreement. • Las Vegas Strip Assets ROFR . Upon the consummation of the Eldorado Transaction, we entered into the Las Vegas Strip ROFR Agreement pursuant to which we have the first right, with respect to the first two Las Vegas Strip assets described below that Caesars proposes to sell, whether pursuant to a sale leaseback or a WholeCo sale, to a third party, to acquire any such asset (it being understood that we will have the opportunity to find an operating company should Caesars elect to pursue a WholeCo sale). The Las Vegas Strip assets subject to the Las Vegas Strip ROFR Agreement are the land and real estate assets associated (i) with respect to the first such asset subject to the Las Vegas Strip ROFR Agreement, the Flamingo Las Vegas, Paris Las Vegas, Planet Hollywood and Bally’s Las Vegas gaming facilities, and (ii) with respect to the second asset subject to the Las Vegas Strip ROFR Agreement, the foregoing assets plus The LINQ gaming facility. If we enter into a sale leaseback transaction with Caesars on any of these facilities, the leaseback may be implemented through the addition of such properties to the Las Vegas Master Lease Agreement. • Horseshoe Baltimore ROFR. Upon the consummation of the Eldorado Transaction, we entered into a right of first refusal agreement with Caesars (the “Horseshoe Baltimore ROFR Agreement”) pursuant to which we have the first right to enter into a sale leaseback transaction with respect to the land and real estate assets associated with the Horseshoe Baltimore gaming facility (subject to any consent required from Caesars’ joint venture partners with respect to this asset). • Acquisition of JACK Cleveland/Thistledown. On January 24, 2020, we completed the acquisition of the real estate of JACK Cleveland, located in Cleveland, Ohio and JACK Thistledown, located in North Randall, Ohio (the “JACK Cleveland/Thistledown Acquisition”) from JACK Entertainment, for approximately $843.3 million. Simultaneous with the closing of the JACK Cleveland/Thistledown Acquisition, we entered into a master triple-net lease agreement for JACK Cleveland and JACK Thistledown with a subsidiary of JACK Entertainment. The lease has an initial total annual rent of $65.9 million and, as subsequently amended, an initial term of 20 years, with three (rather than four) five-year tenant renewal options. The tenant’s obligations under the lease are guaranteed by Rock Ohio Ventures LLC. Additionally, we made a $50.0 million loan to affiliates of Rock Ohio Ventures LLC secured by, among other things, certain non-gaming real estate assets owned by such affiliates and guaranteed by Rock Ohio Ventures LLC. The terms of the JACK Cleveland/Thistledown Lease Agreement and the ROV Loan were subsequently amended on July 16, 2020 pursuant to the JACK Lease Agreement Amendment and Amended and Restated ROV Loan as described below in Other Portfolio Activity. Disposition Activity • Sale of Bally’s Atlantic City. On November 18, 2020, we and Caesars closed on the previously announced transaction to sell Bally’s Atlantic City to Bally’s Corporation for proceeds of $19.0 million to us. The annual rent payments under the Regional Master Lease Agreement remain unchanged following completion of the disposition. • Sale of Harrah’s Reno. On September 30, 2020, we and Caesars closed on the previously announced transaction to sell Harrah’s Reno to a third party for proceeds of $31.1 million to us. The annual rent payments under the Regional Master Lease Agreement remain unchanged following completion of the disposition. • Sale of Louisiana Downs. On September 3, 2020, we and Caesars entered into definitive agreements to sell Harrah’s Louisiana Downs to Rubico Acquisition Corp. for proceeds of $5.5 million to us. The annual rent payments under the Regional Master Lease Agreement will remain unchanged following completion of the disposition, which we anticipate will close in the first half of 2021 and remains subject to regulatory approval and customary closing conditions. Other Portfolio Activity • Caesars Southern Indiana Lease Agreement. On December 24, 2020, in connection with the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians’ (“EBCI”) agreement to acquire the operations of Caesars Southern Indiana from Caesars, we agreed to enter into a triple-net lease agreement with EBCI with respect to the real property associated with Caesars Southern Indiana, at the closing of EBCI’s acquisition. In addition, as part of the transaction, the parties have agreed to negotiate a right of first refusal for VICI Properties on the real property associated with the development of a new casino resort in Danville, Virginia. Initial total annual rent under the lease with EBCI will be $32.5 million. The lease will have an initial term of 15 years, with four 5-year tenant renewal options. The tenant’s obligations under the lease will be guaranteed by EBCI. Annual base rent payments under the Regional Master Lease will be reduced by $32.5 million upon completion of EBCI’s acquisition of the operations of Caesars Southern Indiana and the execution of the lease between us and EBCI. The property is expected to retain the Caesars brand name and to continue to be a part of the Caesars Rewards loyalty program in accordance with the terms of a licensing agreement negotiated between EBCI and 53 Caesars. The transaction is subject to customary regulatory and other approvals (and, with respect to the right of first refusal, negotiation of definitive documentation and applicable regulatory and other governmental approvals) and are expected to be completed in the third quarter of 2021. • Amendment to JACK Cleveland/Thistledown Lease Agreement. On July 16, 2020, we and JACK Entertainment entered into an amendment to the JACK Cleveland/Thistledown Lease Agreement (the “JACK Lease Agreement Amendment”), pursuant to which, among other things, we agreed to fund $18.0 million for the construction of a new gaming patio amenity at JACK Thistledown Racino, which will be leased by JACK Entertainment pursuant to the JACK Lease Agreement Amendment. In connection with the construction of the gaming patio, commencing on April 1, 2022, annual rent under the JACK Cleveland/Thistledown Lease Agreement (as amended by the JACK Lease Agreement Amendment) will be increased by an incremental $1.8 million. The JACK Lease Agreement Amendment also provides for relief with respect to certain existing covenants through March 31, 2022, adds an additional five years to the initial lease term, with the tenant under the JACK Cleveland/Thistledown Lease Agreement having three (rather than four) five-year renewal options as a result of such extension of the initial lease term, and provides for rent escalation to begin in 2022 rather than 2021. The JACK Lease Agreement Amendment does not provide for a reduction or deferral of the tenant’s rent obligations. The relief is conditioned upon the satisfaction of certain requirements. • Amendment and Restatement of ROV Loan . Simultaneously with entry into the JACK Lease Agreement Amendment, we and affiliates of Rock Ohio Ventures LLC entered into an amendment and restatement of the existing $50.0 million term loan agreement pursuant to which, among other things, the Company increased the existing term loan to $70.0 million, bearing interest at a rate of 9.0% per annum, and added a $25.0 million revolving credit facility (which remains undrawn), bearing interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 2.75%. Additionally, a commitment fee of 0.50% per annum calculated on the unused portion of the ROV Credit Facility is payable quarterly. In connection with the amendment and restatement of the loan, we received additional collateral so that the term loan and revolving credit facility are now secured by a first priority lien on substantially all gaming and non-gaming real and personal property of JACK Entertainment. • CapEx Amendment to Caesars Lease Agreements. On June 1, 2020, we and Caesars entered into an Omnibus Amendment to Leases (the “Omnibus Amendment”) in connection with the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on operations and financial performance, which was further amended on October 27, 2020 to capture the addition of the MTA Properties to the Regional Master Lease Agreement. The Omnibus Amendment provides Caesars with certain relief with respect to a portion of their capital expenditure obligations under the Caesars Lease Agreements, subject to certain conditions. • Amendment to Century Portfolio Lease Agreement. In May 2020, we entered into an amendment to the Century Portfolio Lease Agreement to amend certain covenants, including minimum capital expenditures. In connection with the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on operations and financial performance, the Company agreed to waive Century’s capital expenditure requirements for 2020 and defer to not later than December 31, 2021 certain other expenditures contemplated in connection with the underwriting of the acquired casino properties, subject to certain conditions. Financing and Capital Markets Activity • Partial Settlement of June 2020 Forward Sale Offering. On September 28, 2020, we partially settled the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement (as defined below) by delivering 3,000,000 shares of our common stock to the forward purchaser in exchange for total net proceeds of approximately $63.0 million. • June 2020 Forward Sale Offering. On June 17, 2020, we completed a primary follow-on offering of 29,900,000 shares of common stock (inclusive of 3,900,000 shares sold pursuant to the exercise in full of the underwriters’ option to purchase additional shares) at a public offering price of $22.15 per share for an aggregate offering value of $662.3 million, all of which are subject to a forward sale agreement (the “June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement”), which initially required settlement by September 17, 2020. On September 16, 2020, we amended the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement to extend the maturity date from September 17, 2020 to June 17, 2021. Following the partial settlement on September 28, 2020 referred to above, 26,900,000 shares of common stock remain to be settled under the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement. • Unsecured February 2020 Senior Notes Offering and Redemption and Repayment of the Second Lien Notes. On February 5, 2020, the Operating Partnership and the Co-Issuer (together with the Operating Partnership, the “Issuers”) issued (i) $750.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 2025 Notes, accruing interest at 3.500% per annum, (ii) $750.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 2027 Notes, accruing interest at 3.750% per annum and (iii) $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 2030 Notes, accruing interest at 4.125% per annum. On February 20, 2020, we 54 used a portion of the net proceeds from the 2025 Notes, together with cash on hand, to redeem in full the outstanding $498.5 million in aggregate principal amount of the Second Lien Notes plus the Second Lien Notes Applicable Premium, for a total redemption cost of approximately $537.5 million. We used the remaining $2.0 billion of the net proceeds of the offering to fund a portion of the purchase price of the Eldorado Transaction on July 20, 2020. • Repricing of Term Loan B Facility. On January 24, 2020, we amended the Term Loan B Facility to reduce the interest rate from L + 2.00% to L + 1.75%. KEY TRENDS THAT MAY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS Subsidiaries of Caesars, Penn National, Hard Rock, Century Casinos and JACK Entertainment are the lessees of all of our properties pursuant to the Lease Agreements, and Caesars, Penn National, Seminole Hard Rock, Century Casinos or Rock Ohio Ventures LLC guarantees the obligations of their respective subsidiary tenants under the Lease Agreements. The Lease Agreements account for a substantial majority of our revenues. Additionally, we expect to realize organic growth in rental revenue through annual rent escalators in our Lease Agreements. Accordingly, we are dependent on our tenants, the gaming industry and the health of the economies in the areas where our properties are located for the foreseeable future, and an event that has a material adverse effect on any of our tenant’s business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or prospects, such as the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. See . For a full discussion on the impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic on our business see We actively seek to grow our portfolio through acquisitions of, and investments in, experiential real estate in geographically diverse dynamic markets spanning hospitality, entertainment, leisure and gaming properties. Additionally, we expect to grow our portfolio through acquisitions by pursuing opportunities to execute sale leaseback transactions with Caesars, including pursuant to: (i) the Centaur Properties Put-Call Agreement; (ii) the Caesars Forum Put-Call Agreement; and (iii) the Las Vegas Strip ROFR Agreement and Horseshoe Baltimore ROFR Agreement. However, Caesars will make an independent financial decision regarding whether to sell properties and therefore trigger the rights of first refusal under the Las Vegas Strip ROFR Agreement and the Horseshoe Baltimore ROFR Agreement, and we will make an independent financial decision whether to purchase the properties in each instance. Finally, we believe the approximately 34 acres of undeveloped or underdeveloped land on and adjacent to the Las Vegas Strip that we own may provide attractive opportunities for potential future expansion and development. In pursuing external growth initiatives, we will generally seek to acquire or invest in properties that can generate stable revenue through long-term leases with tenants with established operating histories, and we will consider various factors when evaluating acquisitions and other investments, including the ability to continue to diversify our tenant base and increasing our geographic diversification. Our operating and financial performance in the future will be significantly influenced by the success of our acquisition strategy, and the timing and the availability and terms of financing of any acquisitions that we may complete, as well as broader macroeconomic and other conditions that affect our tenants’ operating and financial performance, including the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. We can provide no assurance that we will exercise any of our contractual rights to purchase one or more properties from Caesars, that Caesars will trigger the rights of first offer under the Las Vegas Strip ROFR Agreement and Horseshoe Baltimore ROFR Agreement, or that we will otherwise be successful in acquiring any properties (whether subject to the Las Vegas Strip ROFR Agreement, the Horseshoe Baltimore ROFR Agreement, or otherwise). Additionally, our ability to successfully implement our acquisition and investment strategy will depend upon the availability and terms of financing, including debt and equity capital. Further, the pricing of any acquisitions or other investments we may consummate and the terms of any leases that we may enter into will significantly impact our future results. Competition to enter into transactions, including sale leaseback transactions, with attractive properties and desirable tenants is intense, and we can provide no assurance that any future acquisitions, investments or leases will be on terms as favorable to us as those relating to recent transactions. We anticipate that we would seek to finance these acquisitions with a combination of debt and equity, although no assurance can be given that we would be able to issue equity in such amounts on favorable terms, or at all, or that we would not determine to incur more debt on a relative basis at the relevant time due to market conditions or otherwise. In addition to rent, our current Lease Agreements require our tenants to pay the following: (1) all facility maintenance; (2) all insurance required in connection with the leased properties and the business conducted on the leased properties; (3) taxes levied on or with respect to the leased properties (other than taxes on our income); and (4) all utilities and other services necessary or appropriate for the leased properties and the business conducted on the leased properties. Accordingly, due to the “triple-net” structure of our leases, we do not expect to incur significant property-level expenses. 55 DISCUSSION OF OPERATING RESULTS Results of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019 56 Revenue For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, our revenue was comprised of the following items: Leasing Revenue The following table details the components of our income from sales-type, direct financing, operating and financing receivables leases: ____________________ (1) Represents portion of land separately classified and accounted for under the operating lease model associated with our investment in Caesars Palace Las Vegas and certain operating land parcels contained in the Regional Master Lease Agreement. Upon the consummation of the Eldorado Transaction on July 20, 2020, the land component of Caesars Palace Las Vegas and certain operating land parcels were reassessed for lease classification and determined to be a sales-type lease. Accordingly, subsequent to July 20, 2020, such income is recognized as Income from sales-type and direct financing leases. (2) Represents the MTA Properties and the JACK Cleveland/Thistledown Lease Agreement, both of which were sale leaseback transactions. In accordance with ASC 842, since the lease agreements were determined to meet the definition of a sales-type lease and control of the asset is not considered to have transferred to us, such lease agreements are accounted for as financings under ASC 310. (3) Amounts represent the non-cash adjustment to income from sales-type leases, direct financing leases and lease financing receivables in order to recognize income on an effective interest basis at a constant rate of return over the term of the leases. Leasing revenue is generated from rent from our Lease Agreements. Total leasing revenue increased $304.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. Total contractual leasing revenue increased $264.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase was primarily driven by the addition of Greektown, Hard Rock Cincinnati, the Century Portfolio, JACK Cleveland/Thistledown and the MTA Properties to our real estate portfolio in May 2019, September 2019, December 2019, January 2020 and July 2020, respectively, as well as the CPLV Additional Rent Acquisition and the HLV Additional Rent Acquisition in July 2020. Income From Loans Income from loans increased $15.7 million during the during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase was driven by the addition of the Amended and Restated ROV Loan, Chelsea Piers Mortgage Loan and Forum Convention Center Mortgage Loan to our real estate portfolio in January 2020, August 2020 and September 2020, respectively. Other Income For the year ended December 31, 2019, Other income was included net in General and administrative expenses. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we have re-classified Other income to be presented gross with an offsetting amount within Other expenses. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2020, we recognized additional income and an offsetting expense as a result of the assumption of the HNO Ground Lease, as further described in , as part of the MTA Properties Acquisitions. 57 Golf Course Revenues Revenues from golf operations decreased $5.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease was primarily driven by the closure of our golf courses in mid-March until early to mid-May,  as well as lower resort play at our Las Vegas courses as a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by an increase in the contractual fees paid to us by Caesars for the use of our golf courses, pursuant to the Golf Course Use Agreement. Operating Expenses For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, our operating expenses were comprised of the following items: General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses increased $6.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in compensation, including stock-based compensation. Other Expenses For the year ended December 31, 2019, Other expenses were included net in General and administrative expenses. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we have re-classified Other expenses to be presented gross with an offsetting amount within Other income. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2020, we recognized additional income and an offsetting expense as a result of the assumption of the HNO Ground Lease, as further described in , as part of the MTA Properties Acquisitions. Golf Course Expenses Expenses from golf operations decreased $1.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease was primarily driven by the closure of our golf courses in mid-March until early to mid-May, as well as lower resort play at our Las Vegas courses as a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by an increase in the water usage charges at one of our golf courses. Additionally, even though our courses were closed from mid-March until early to mid-May as a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, we continued to pay all of our golf course employees their full salaries and benefits for the closure period and, accordingly, the decrease in our golf course operating revenues was not proportionately offset by a decrease in golf course operating expenses. In addition, $3.7 million and $3.8 million of depreciation expense was incurred primarily by the golf business during the year ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. 58 Change in Allowance for Credit Losses On January 1, 2020, we adopted ASU No. 2016-13 - Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326) which requires us to record an estimated credit loss for our (i) Investments in leases - sales-type and direct financing, (ii) Investments in leases - financing receivables and (iii) Investments in loans. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recognized a $244.5 million increase in our allowance for credit losses primarily driven by the increase in investment balances subject to CECL. Specifically, the increase was primarily attributable to (i) the increase in investment balances resulting from the Eldorado Transaction, which includes (A) an initial CECL allowance on our $1.8 billion investment in the MTA Properties, (B) an additional CECL allowance on our aggregate $1.4 billion increased investment in the Las Vegas Master Lease Agreement as a result of the CPLV Additional Rent Acquisition and HLV Additional Rent Acquisition and (C) an additional CECL allowance on the $333.4 million increased balance of our existing Caesars Lease Agreements as a result of the mark to fair value in connection with the reassessment of lease classification, (ii) an increase related to our initial investment in JACK Cleveland/Thistledown and the ROV Loan in January 2020, (iii) an increase in the short-term probability of default of Caesars as a result of the Eldorado/Caesars Merger and (iv) an increase in the long-term probability of default of our tenants due to downgrades on certain of the credit ratings of our tenants’ senior secured debt in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic. The credit loss standard does not require retrospective application and, as such, there is no corresponding charge for the year ended December 31, 2019. Refer to for further details. Transaction and Acquisition Expenses Transaction and acquisition costs increased $3.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. Changes in transaction and acquisition expenses are related to fluctuations in (i) costs incurred for investments during the period that are not capitalizable under GAAP and (ii) costs incurred for investments that we are no longer pursuing. Non-Operating Income and Expenses Interest Expense Interest expense increased $60.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase is primarily attributable to the increase in debt of $4.75 billion from the February 2020 Senior Unsecured Notes offering and the November 2019 Senior Unsecured Notes offering, partially offset by a $2.05 billion reduction in debt as a result of the full redemption of the Second Lien Notes in February 2020 and full repayment of the CPLV CMBS Debt in November 2019. Additionally, the weighted average annualized interest rate of our debt decreased to 4.47% during the year ended December 31, 2020 from 4.95% during the year ended December 31, 2019 as a result of (i) the weighted average interest rate on the February 2020 Senior Unsecured Notes and the November 2019 Senior Unsecured Notes being lower than the weighted average interest rate of the Second Lien Notes and CPLV CMBS Debt, (ii) a decrease in LIBOR on the $100.0 million portion of our variable rate debt that is not hedged and (iii) a reduction in the interest rate on the Term Loan B Facility from LIBOR plus 2.00% to LIBOR plus 1.75%. Interest Income Interest income decreased $13.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease was primarily driven by an overall decrease in our cash and short-term investment balances and a substantial decrease in the interest rates earned on these investment balances. Loss on Extinguishment of Debt During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of $39.1 million resulting from the full redemption of our Second Lien Notes in February 2020. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of $58.1 million resulting from the $110.8 million prepayment penalties associated with the full repayment of our CPLV CMBS Debt in November 2019, net of $55.4 million of which was reimbursed by Eldorado. 59 Gain Upon Lease Modification In connection with the Eldorado Transaction and as required under ASC 842, we reassessed the lease classification of the Las Vegas Master Lease Agreement, Regional Master Lease Agreement and Joliet Lease Agreement and determined the leases meet the definition of a sales-type lease, including the land component of Caesars Palace Las Vegas. As a result of the reclassifications of the Caesars Lease Agreements from direct financing and operating leases to sales-type leases, we recorded the investments at their estimated fair values as of the modification date and recognized a net gain equal to the difference in fair value of the assets and their carrying values immediately prior to the modification. Results of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 For a comparison of our results of operations for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, see “ ” of our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the SEC on February 20, 2020 and incorporated by reference herein. RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP MEASURES We present Funds From Operations (“FFO”), FFO per share, Adjusted Funds From Operations (“AFFO”), AFFO per share, and Adjusted EBITDA, which are not required by, or presented in accordance with, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”). These are non-GAAP financial measures and should not be construed as alternatives to net income or as an indicator of operating performance (as determined in accordance with GAAP). We believe FFO, FFO per share, AFFO, AFFO per share and Adjusted EBITDA provide a meaningful perspective of the underlying operating performance of our business. FFO is a non-GAAP financial measure that is considered a supplemental measure for the real estate industry and a supplement to GAAP measures. Consistent with the definition used by The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT), we define FFO as net income (or loss) attributable to common stockholders (computed in accordance with GAAP) excluding (i) gains (or losses) from sales of certain real estate assets, (ii) depreciation and amortization related to real estate, (iii) gains and losses from change in control and (iv) impairment write-downs of certain real estate assets and investments in entities when the impairment is directly attributable to decreases in the value of depreciable real estate held by the entity. AFFO is a non-GAAP financial measure that we use as a supplemental operating measure to evaluate our performance. We calculate AFFO by adding or subtracting from FFO non-cash leasing and financing adjustments, non-cash change in allowance for credit losses, non-cash stock-based compensation expense, transaction costs incurred in connection with the acquisition of real estate investments, amortization of debt issuance costs and original issue discount, other non-cash interest expense, non-real estate depreciation (which is comprised of the depreciation related to our golf course operations), capital expenditures (which are comprised of additions to property, plant and equipment related to our golf course operations), impairment charges related to non-depreciable real estate and gains (or losses) on debt extinguishment, other non-recurring non-cash transactions (such as non-cash gain upon lease modification) and non-cash adjustments attributable to non-controlling interest with respect to certain of the foregoing. The non-cash change in allowance for credit losses consists of estimated credit losses for our Investments in leases - sales-type and direct financing, Investments in leases - financing receivables and Investments in loans as a result of our adoption of ASU No. 2016-13 - Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326). No similar adjustments are reflected in prior periods because the accounting standard was adopted effective January 1, 2020 and does not require retrospective application. Please see for further information. We calculate Adjusted EBITDA by adding or subtracting from AFFO contractual interest expense and interest income (collectively, interest expense, net) and income tax expense. These non-GAAP financial measures: (i) do not represent cash flow from operations as defined by GAAP; (ii) should not be considered as an alternative to net income as a measure of operating performance or to cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities; and (iii) are not alternatives to cash flow as a measure of liquidity. In addition, these measures should not be viewed as measures of liquidity, nor do they measure our ability to fund all of our cash needs, including our ability to make cash distributions to our stockholders, to fund capital improvements, or to make interest payments on our indebtedness. Investors are also cautioned that FFO, FFO per share, AFFO, AFFO per share and Adjusted EBITDA, as presented, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other real estate companies, including REITs, due to the fact that not all real estate companies use the same definitions. Our presentation of these measures does not replace the presentation of our financial results in accordance with GAAP. 60 Reconciliation of Net Income to FFO, FFO per Share, AFFO, AFFO per Share and Adjusted EBITDA 61 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Overview As of December 31, 2020, our available cash balances, short-term investments, capacity under our Revolving Credit Facility and additional available proceeds were as follows: ____________________ (1) Subject to compliance with the financial covenants and other applicable provisions of our Revolving Credit Facility. (2) Assumes the physical settlement of the remaining 26,900,000 shares under the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement at the forward sale price of $20.34, calculated as of December 31, 2020. Our short-term obligations consist primarily of regular interest payments on our debt obligations, dividends to our common stockholders, normal recurring operating expenses, recurring expenditures for corporate and administrative needs, certain lease and other contractual commitments related to our golf operations and certain non-recurring expenditures. For a list of our material contractual commitments refer to . Our long-term obligations consist primarily of principal payments on our outstanding debt obligations and future funding commitments under our lease and loan agreements. As of December 31, 2020, we have $6.9 billion of debt obligations outstanding, none of which are maturing in the next twelve months. As of December 31, 2020, we have $46.0 million in future funding commitments consisting of $25.0 million related to the ROV Credit Facility, $15.0 million related to the delayed draw portion of the Chelsea Piers Mortgage Loan and $6.0 million related to the funding of the construction of a new gaming patio amenity at JACK Thistledown Racino, which will be leased by JACK Entertainment pursuant to the JACK Lease Agreement Amendment. For a summary of principal debt balances and their maturity dates and principal terms refer to . For a summary of our future funding commitments under our loan portfolio refer to . As described in our leases, capital expenditures for properties under the Lease Agreements are the responsibility of the tenants. Minimum capital expenditure spending requirements of the tenants are described in . 62 Contractual Obligations and Commitments Information concerning our obligations and commitments to make future payments under contracts such as our indebtedness and future minimum lease commitments under operating leases is included in the following table as of December 31, 2020: ________________________________________ ( 1) The 2025 Notes, 2026 Notes, 2027 Notes, 2029 Notes and 2030 Notes will mature on February 15, 2025, December 1, 2026, February 15, 2027, December 1, 2029 and August 15, 2030, respectively. (2) The Term Loan B Facility is subject to amortization of 1.0% of principal per annum payable in equal quarterly installments on the last business day of each calendar quarter. However, as a result of prepaying $100.0 million in February 2018 the next principal payment due on the Term Loan B Facility is September 2022. The Term Loan B Facility will mature on December 22, 2024 (or if the maturity is extended pursuant to the terms of the agreement, such extended maturity date as determined pursuant thereto). (3) The Revolving Credit Facility will mature on May 15, 2024. (4) Estimated interest payments on variable interest loans are based on a LIBOR rate as of December 31, 2020. (5) The allocation of our future funding commitments is based on the commitment funding date or expiration date, as applicable, however we may be obligated to fund these commitments earlier than such date. We believe that we have sufficient liquidity to meet our liquidity and capital resource requirements primarily through currently available cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash received under our Lease Agreements, borrowings from banks, including undrawn capacity under our Revolving Credit Facility, and proceeds from the issuance of debt and equity securities (including issuances under the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement and our at-the-market offering program). All of the Lease Agreements call for an initial term of fifteen years with four, five-year tenant renewal options and are designed to provide us with a reliable and predictable long-term revenue stream (except for the JACK Cleveland/Thistledown Lease Agreement, as amended, which now provides for an initial term of twenty years with three, five-year renewal options). However, the COVID-19 pandemic has adversely impacted our tenants and their financial condition, and is expected to continue to do so, as all of their properties were closed for a period of time, and upon reopening are subject to operating restrictions and continuing uncertainty as to whether they will be forced to close again in the future. In the event our tenants are unable to make all of their contractual rent payments as provided by the Lease Agreements, we believe we have sufficient 63 liquidity from the other sources discussed above to meet all of our contractual obligations for a significant period of time. Additionally, we do not have any debt maturities until 2024. For more information, refer to the risk factors in . Our cash flows from operations and our ability to access capital resources could be adversely affected due to uncertain economic factors and volatility in the financial and credit markets, including the current conditions created by the COVID-19 pandemic, which has severely and adversely impacted global, national and regional economic activity and has contributed to significant volatility and negative pressure in financial markets. In particular, in connection with the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on our tenants’ operations and financial performance, we have provided certain relief under the applicable Lease Agreements to some of our tenants as more fully described above in “—Summary of Significant 2020 Activities  — Amendment to JACK Cleveland/Thistledown Lease Agreement”, “—Summary of Significant 2020 Activities  — Amendment to Century Portfolio Lease Agreement” and “—Summary of Significant 2020 Activities — Amendment to Caesars Lease Agreements” and, as a result, we can provide no assurances that our tenants will not default on their leases or fail to make full rental payments if their businesses become challenged due to, among other things, current or future adverse economic conditions. In addition, any such tenant default or failure to make full rental payments could impact our operating performance and result in us not satisfying the financial covenants applicable to our outstanding indebtedness, which could result in us not being able to incur additional debt, including the available capacity under our Revolving Credit Facility, or result in a default. Further, current or future economic conditions could impact our tenants’ ability to meet capital improvement requirements or other obligations required in our Lease Agreements that could result in a decrease in the value of our properties. Our ability to raise funds through the issuance of debt and equity securities and access to other third-party sources of capital in the future will be dependent on, among other things, uncertainties related to COVID-19 and the impact of our response and our tenants’ responses to COVID-19, general economic conditions, general market conditions for REITs, market perceptions and the trading price of our stock. We will continue to analyze which sources of capital are most advantageous to us at any particular point in time, but the capital markets may not be consistently available on terms we deem attractive, or at all. Cash Flow Analysis The table below summarizes our cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019: Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities increased $201.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared with the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase was primarily due to (i) cash rental payments from the addition of Greektown, Hard Rock Cincinnati, the Century Portfolio, JACK Cleveland/Thistledown and the MTA Properties to our real estate portfolio in May 2019, September 2019, December 2019, January 2020 and July 2020, respectively, as well as the CPLV Additional Rent Acquisition and the HLV Additional Rent Acquisition in July 2020 and (ii) interest income from the ROV Loan, Chelsea Piers Mortgage Loan and the Forum Convention Center Mortgage Loan, all of which were originated in 2020. The increase was partially offset by a decrease due to the prepayment of certain rent in December 2019 related to January 2020. Cash Flows Used In Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities increased $3,187.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared with the year ended December 31, 2019. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the primary sources and uses of cash from investing activities included: • The JACK Cleveland/Thistledown Acquisition and the Eldorado Transaction for a total cost of $4,101.8 million, including acquisition costs; • The ROV Loan, the Chelsea Piers Mortgage Loan and the Forum Convention Center Mortgage Loan for a total cost of $535.5 million, including loan origination costs; 64 • Proceeds from the sale of Harrah’s Reno and Bally’s Atlantic City in the aggregate amount of $50.1 million; • Proceeds from net maturities of short-term investments of $39.5 million; • Acquisition of property and equipment costs of $2.8 million; and • Deferred transaction costs of $0.3 million. During the year ended December 31, 2019, the primary sources and uses of cash from investing activities include: • Acquisitions of Margaritaville, Greektown, Hard Rock Cincinnati and the Century Portfolio for a total cost of $1,821.1 million, including acquisition costs; • Proceeds from net maturities of short-term investments of $461.4 million; • Proceeds from the sale of vacant, non-operating land of $1.0 million; • Acquisition of property and equipment cost of $2.7 million; and • Deferred transaction costs of $8.7 million. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities increased $1,696.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared with the year ended December 31, 2019. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the primary sources and uses of cash from financing activities included: • Net proceeds from the sale of an aggregate of $1,539.7 million of our common stock pursuant to the full physical settlement of our June 2019 Forward Sale Agreements, the partial physical settlement of our common stock pursuant to our June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement and pursuant to our at-the-market program; • Gross proceeds from our February 2020 Senior Unsecured Notes offering of $2,500.0 million; • Full redemption of the $498.5 million outstanding aggregate principal amount of our Second Lien Notes, as well as the $39.0 million Second Lien Notes Applicable Premium, plus fees; • Dividend payments of $612.2 million; • Debt issuance costs of $57.8 million; • Reimbursement of the CPLV CMBS Debt prepayment penalty from Caesars in the amount of $55.4 million; and • Distributions of $8.2 million to non-controlling interest During the year ended December 31, 2019, the primary sources and uses of cash from financing activities include: • Net proceeds from the sale of an aggregate of $1,164.3 million of our common stock from a primary follow-on offering and pursuant to our at-the-market program; • Gross proceeds from our November 2019 Senior Unsecured Notes offering of $2,250.0 million; • Full repayment of $1,550.0 million of our CPLV CMBS Debt, including the $110.8 million prepayment penalty plus fees; • Dividend payments of $504.0 million; • Debt issuance costs of $56.1 million; and • Distributions of $8.1 million to non-controlling interest 65 Debt The following tables detail our debt obligations as of December 31, 2020: ____________________ (1) Carrying value is net of original issue discount and unamortized debt issuance costs incurred in conjunction with debt. (2) Interest on any outstanding balance is payable monthly. On May 15, 2019, we amended our Revolving Credit Facility to, among other things, increase borrowing capacity by $600.0 million to a total of $1.0 billion and extend the maturity date to May 2024. After giving effect to the amendments executed on May 15, 2019, borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at a rate based on a leverage-based pricing grid with a range of 1.75% to 2.00% over LIBOR, or between 0.75% and 1.00% over the base rate depending on our total net debt to adjusted total assets ratio. Additionally, after giving effect to the amendments executed on May 15, 2019, the commitment fee under the Revolving Credit Facility is calculated on a leverage-based pricing grid with a range of 0.375% to 0.5%, in each case depending on our total net debt to adjusted total assets ratio. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the commitment fee was 0.375%. (3) Interest on any outstanding balance is payable monthly. In connection with the repricing of the Term Loan B Facility in January 2020, the interest rate was decreased to LIBOR plus 1.75%. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, we had six interest rate swap agreements outstanding with third-party financial institutions having an aggregate notional amount of $2.0 billion at a blended LIBOR rate of 2.7173%. (4) Interest is payable semi-annually. Financing Activity During 2020 On February 5, 2020, the Issuers issued (i) $750.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 2025 Notes, (ii) $750.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 2027 Notes and (iii) $1.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of 2030 Notes. We placed $2.0 billion of the net proceeds of the offering into escrow pending the consummation of the Eldorado Transaction (which was subsequently released from escrow and used to fund a portion of the consideration payable in connection with the closing of the Eldorado Transaction on July 20, 2020). On February 20, 2020, we used the remaining net proceeds from the 2025 Notes, together with cash on hand, to redeem in full the outstanding $498.5 million in aggregate principal amount of the Second Lien Notes plus the Second Lien Notes Applicable Premium for a total redemption cost of approximately $537.5 million. On January 24, 2020, VICI PropCo entered into Amendment No. 1 to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, which, among other things, reduced the interest rate on the Term Loan B Facility from LIBOR plus 2.00% to LIBOR plus 1.75%. 66 Covenants On December 22, 2017, VICI PropCo entered into a credit agreement (as amended, the “Credit Agreement”) governing the Term Loan B Facility and the Revolving Credit Facility. The Credit Agreement contains customary covenants that, among other things, limit the ability of VICI PropCo and its restricted subsidiaries to: (i) incur additional indebtedness; (ii) merge with a third party or engage in other fundamental changes; (iii) make restricted payments; (iv) enter into, create, incur or assume any liens; (v) make certain sales and other dispositions of assets; (vi) enter into certain transactions with affiliates; (vii) make certain payments on certain other  indebtedness; (viii) make certain investments; and (ix) incur restrictions on the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make certain distributions, loans or transfers of assets to VICI PropCo or any restricted subsidiary. These covenants are subject to a number of exceptions and qualifications, including the ability to make unlimited restricted payments to maintain our REIT status and to avoid the payment of federal or state income or excise tax, the ability to make restricted payments in an amount not to exceed 95% of our Funds from Operations (as defined in the Credit Agreement) subject to no event of default under the Credit Agreement and pro forma compliance with the financial covenant pursuant to the Credit Agreement, and the ability to make additional restricted payments in an aggregate amount not to exceed the greater of 0.6% of Adjusted Total Assets (as defined in the Credit Agreement) or $30,000,000. Commencing with the first full fiscal quarter ended after December 22, 2017, if the outstanding amount of the Revolving Credit Facility plus any drawings under letters of credit issued pursuant to the Credit Agreement that have not been reimbursed as of the end of any fiscal quarter exceeds 30% of the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Facility, VICI PropCo and its restricted subsidiaries on a consolidated basis would be required to  maintain a maximum Total Net Debt to Adjusted Total Assets Ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, as of the last day of any applicable fiscal quarter. The November 2019 Senior Unsecured Notes and the February 2020 Senior Unsecured Notes (together, the “Senior Unsecured Notes”) were issued in November 2019 and February 2020, respectively, pursuant to indentures (the “Senior Unsecured Notes Indentures”) by and among the Operating Partnership and the Co-Issuer (together with the Operating Partnership, the “Senior Unsecured Notes Issuers”), the subsidiary guarantors party thereto and UMB Bank, National Association, as trustee. The Senior Unsecured Notes Indentures contain covenants that limit the Issuers’ and their restricted subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: (i) incur additional debt; (ii) pay dividends on or make other distributions in respect of their capital stock or make other restricted payments; (iii) make certain investments; (iv) sell certain assets; (v) create or permit to exist dividend and/or payment restrictions affecting their restricted subsidiaries; (vi) create liens on certain assets to secure debt; (vii) consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of their assets; (viii) enter into certain transactions with their affiliates; and (ix) designate their subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. These covenants are subject to a number of exceptions and qualifications, including the ability to declare or pay any cash dividend or make any cash distribution to VICI to the extent necessary for VICI to fund a dividend or distribution by VICI that it believes is necessary to maintain its status as a REIT or to avoid payment of any tax for any calendar year that could be avoided by reason of such distribution, and the ability to make certain restricted payments not to exceed 95% of our cumulative Funds From Operations (as defined in the Senior Unsecured Notes Indentures), plus the aggregate net proceeds from (i) the sale of certain equity interests in, (ii) capital contributions to, and (iii) certain convertible indebtedness of the Operating Partnership. At December 31, 2020, the Company was in compliance with all required debt-related financial covenants. Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries of Senior Unsecured Notes The subsidiaries of the Operating Partnership that do not guarantee the Senior Unsecured Notes accounted for: (i) 5.2% of the Operating Partnership’s revenue (or 5.1% of our consolidated revenue) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020 and (ii) 3.8% of the Operating Partnership’s total assets (or 3.8% of our consolidated total assets) as of December 31, 2020. Capital Expenditures As described in our leases, capital expenditures for properties under the Lease Agreements are the responsibility of the tenants. Minimum capital expenditure spending requirements of the tenants are described in . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2020, and as of the date this report was filed, we do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. 67 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. We have identified certain accounting policies that we believe are the most critical to the presentation of our financial information over a period of time. These accounting policies may require our management to take decisions on subjective and/or complex matters relating to reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs, expenses and related disclosures, including, but not limited to, determining the classification of our leases, the subsequent accounting for our leases and the calculation of our allowance for credit losses. The judgment on such estimates and underlying assumptions is based on our historical experience that we believe is reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from the estimates. Investments in Leases - Sales-type and Direct Financing, Net We account for our investments in leases under ASC 842 “Leases” (“ASC 842”). Upon lease inception or lease modification, we assess lease classification to determine whether the lease should be classified as a sales-type, direct financing or operating lease. As required by ASC 842, we separately assess the land and building components of the property to determine the classification of each component. If the lease component is determined to be a direct financing or sales-type lease, we record a net investment in the lease, which is equal to the sum of the lease receivable and the unguaranteed residual asset, discounted at the rate implicit in the lease. Any difference between the fair value of the asset and the net investment in the lease is considered selling profit or loss and is either recognized upon execution of the lease or deferred and recognized over the life of the lease, depending on the classification of the lease. Since we purchase properties and simultaneously enter into new leases directly with the tenants, the net investment in the lease is generally equal to the purchase price of the asset, and, due to the long term nature of our leases, the land and building components of an investment generally have the same lease classification. Upon adoption of ASC 842 on January 1, 2019, we made an accounting policy election to use a package of practical expedients that, among other things, allow us to not reassess prior lease classifications or initial direct costs for leases that existed as of the balance sheet date. As such, at that time we did not reassess the classification of our Caesars Lease Agreements, as these leases existed prior to our adoption of ASC 842. Prior to the consummation of the Eldorado Transaction, the Caesars Lease Agreements continued to be accounted for as direct financing leases and were included within Investments in leases - sales-type and direct financing, net on the Balance Sheet, with the exception of the land component of Caesars Palace Las Vegas, which was determined to be an operating lease and was included in Investments in leases - operating on the Balance Sheet. The income recognition for our direct financing leases recognized under ASC 840 “Leases” (“ASC 840”) was consistent with the income recognition for our sales-type lease under ASC 842. Upon the consummation of the Eldorado Transaction on July 20, 2020, we modified the CPLV Lease Agreement, HLV Lease Agreement, Non-CPLV Lease Agreement and Joliet Lease Agreement, which included amending certain of the lease terms, combining the CPLV Lease Agreement and HLV Lease Agreement into the Las Vegas Master Lease Agreement and replacing the Non-CPLV Lease Agreement with the Regional Master Lease Agreement. Upon modification, we reassessed the lease classification of the Las Vegas Master Lease Agreement, Regional Master Lease Agreement and Joliet Lease Agreement and determined that the leases meet the definition of a sales-type lease, including the land component of Caesars Palace Las Vegas. Accordingly, we reclassified the land component of Caesars Palace Las Vegas from Investments in leases - operating to Investments in leases - sales-type and direct financing. Further, as a result of the reclassifications of the Caesars Lease Agreements from direct financing and operating leases to sales-type leases, we recorded the investments at their estimated fair values as of the modification date and recognized a net gain equal to the difference in fair value of the assets and their carrying values immediately prior to the modification. Such gain is recognized in our Statement of Operations as Gain upon lease modification. Subsequent to the consummation of the Eldorado Transaction, we no longer have any leases classified as operating or direct financing and, as such, there is no longer any income recorded through Investments in leases - operating. Refer to for further discussion surrounding the lease modifications. Refer to for further discussion surrounding the mark to fair value. We have determined that the land and building components of the Margaritaville Lease Agreement, the Greektown Lease Agreement, the Hard Rock Cincinnati Lease Agreement and the Century Portfolio Lease Agreement meet the definition of a sales-type lease under ASC 842. Investments in Leases - Financing Receivables, Net In accordance with ASC 842, for transactions in which we enter into a contract to acquire an asset and lease it back to the seller under a sales-type lease (i.e., a sale leaseback transaction), control of the asset is not considered to have transferred to us. As a result, we do not recognize the underlying asset but instead recognize a financial asset in accordance with ASC 310 “Receivables” (“ASC 310”). The accounting for the financing receivable under ASC 310 is materially consistent with the 68 accounting for our investments in leases - sales-type under ASC 842. We determined that the land and building components of the JACK Cleveland/Thistledown Lease Agreement meet the definition of a sales-type lease and, since we purchased and leased the assets back to the seller under a sale leaseback transaction, control is not considered to have transferred to us under GAAP. Accordingly, the JACK Cleveland/Thistledown Lease Agreement is accounted for as Investments in leases - financing receivables on our Balance Sheet, net of allowance for credit losses, in accordance with ASC 310. Upon the consummation of the Eldor ado Transaction on July 20, 2020, and reassessment of the classification of the Caesars Lease Agreements, as described above, we determined that the MTA Properties Acquisitions (as defined in ) meet the definition of a separate contract under ASC 842. In accordance with this guidance, we are required to separately assess the lease classification apart from the other assets in the Regional Master Lease Agreement. We determined that the land and building components of the MTA Properties (as defined in ) meet the definition of a sales-type lease and, since we purchased and leased the assets back to Caesars, control is not considered to have transferred to us under GAAP. Accordingly, the MTA Properties are accounted for as Investments in leases - financing receivables on our Balance Sheet, net of allowance for credit losses, in accordance with ASC 310. Lease Term We assess the non-cancelable lease term under ASC 842, which includes any reasonably assured renewal periods. All of our Lease Agreements provide for an initial term, with multiple tenant renewal options. We have individually assessed all of our Lease Agreements and concluded that the lease term includes all of the periods covered by extension options as it is reasonably certain our tenants will renew the Lease Agreements. We believe our tenants are economically compelled to renew the Lease Agreements due to the importance of our real estate to the operation of their business, the significant capital they have invested in our properties and the lack of suitable replacement assets. Income from Leases and Lease Financing Receivables We recognize the related income from our sales-type leases, direct financing leases and lease financing receivables on an effective interest basis at a constant rate of return over the terms of the applicable leases. As a result, the cash payments accounted for under sales-type leases, direct financing leases and lease financing receivables will not equal income from our Lease Agreements. Rather, a portion of the cash rent we receive is recorded as Income from sales-type and direct financing leases or Income from lease financing receivables and loans, as applicable, in our Statement of Operations and a portion is recorded as a change to Investments in leases - sales-type and direct financing, net or Investments in leases - financing receivables, net, as applicable. Prior to July 20, 2020, under ASC 840, we determined that the land component of Caesars Palace Las Vegas was greater than 25% of the overall fair value of the combined land and building components. At lease inception, the land was determined to be an operating lease and we recorded the related income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. The amount of annual minimum lease payments attributable to the land element after deducting executory costs, including any profit thereon, was determined by applying the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate to the value of the land. Revenue from this lease was recorded as Income from operating leases in our Statement of Operations. Upon the consummation of the Eldorado Transaction on July 20, 2020, the land component of Caesars Palace Las Vegas was reassessed for lease classification and determined to be a sales-type lease. Accordingly, subsequent to July 20, 2020, the income is recognized as Income from sales-type leases. Initial direct costs incurred in connection with entering into investments classified as sales-type or direct financing leases are included in the balance of the net investment in lease. Such amounts will be recognized as a reduction to Income from investments in leases over the life of the lease using the effective interest method. Costs that would have been incurred regardless of whether the lease was signed, such as legal fees and certain other third-party fees, are expensed as incurred to Transaction and acquisition expenses in our Statement of Operations. In connection with the reassessment of the lease classification and mark to fair value of the Caesars Lease Agreements, any initial direct costs capitalized prior to the Eldorado Transaction were written off as part of the gain upon lease modification. Loan origination fees and costs incurred in connection with entering into investments classified as lease financing receivables are included in the balance of the net investment and such amounts will be recognized as a reduction to Income from investments in loans and lease financing receivables over the life of the lease using the effective interest method. Allowance for Credit Losses On January 1, 2020, we adopted ASC 326 “Credit Losses” (“ASC 326”), which requires that we measure and record current expected credit losses (“CECL”) for the majority of our investments, the scope of which includes our Investments in leases - sales-type and direct financing, Investments in leases - financing receivables and Investments in loans. 69 We have elected to use a discounted cash flow model to estimate the Allowance for credit losses, or CECL allowance. This model requires us to develop cash flows which project estimated credit losses over the life of the lease or loan and discount these cash flows at the asset’s effective interest rate. We then record a CECL allowance equal to the difference between the amortized cost basis of the asset and the present value of the expected credit loss cash flows. Expected losses within our cash flows are determined by estimating the probability of default (“PD”) and loss given default (“LGD”) of our tenants and their parent guarantors over the life of each individual lease or financial asset. We have engaged a nationally recognized data analytics firm to assist us with estimating both the PD and LGD of our tenants and their parent guarantors. The PD and LGD are estimated during a reasonable and supportable period for which we believe we are able to estimate future economic conditions (the “R&S Period”) and a long-term period for which we revert to long-term historical averages (the “Long-term Period”). The PD and LGD estimates for the R&S Period are developed using the current financial condition of the tenant and applied to a projection of economic conditions over a two-year term. The PD and LGD for the Long-term Period are estimated using the average historical default rates and historical loss rates, respectively, of public companies over the past 35 years that have similar credit profiles or characteristics to our tenants and their parent guarantors. We were unable to use our historical data to estimate losses as we have no loss history to date. The CECL allowance is recorded as a reduction to our net Investments in leases - direct financing and sales type, Investments in leases - financing receivables and Investments in loans on our Balance Sheet. We are required to update our CECL allowance on a quarterly basis with the resulting change being recorded in the Statement of Operations for the relevant period. Finally, each time we make a new investment in an asset subject to ASC 326, we are required to record an initial CECL allowance for such asset, which will result in a non-cash charge to the Statement of Operations for the relevant period. We are required to estimate a CECL allowance related to contractual commitments to extend credit, such as future funding commitments under a revolving credit facility. The CECL allowance related to these future commitments is recorded as a component of Other liabilities on our Balance Sheet. Charge-offs are deducted from the allowance in the period in which they are deemed uncollectible. Recoveries previously written off are recorded when received. There were no charge-offs or recoveries for the year ended December 31, 2020. Refer to for further information. 70