********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this section and elsewhere in this report or in any other of our filings with the SEC could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In evaluating us, you should consider carefully, among other things, the risks described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face, but do represent those risks and uncertainties that we believe are material to us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that, as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we deem immaterial may also harm our business. Some statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including statements in the following risk factors, constitute forward-looking statements. Please refer to the section entitled “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Business and Operations We are and will always be significantly dependent on our tenants for substantially all of our revenues. An event that has a material adverse effect on any of our significant tenants’ businesses, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or prospects could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. We depend on our tenants to operate the properties that we own in a manner that generates revenues sufficient to allow the tenants to meet their obligations to us. Currently, our two largest tenants, Caesars and MGM, comprise approximately 79% of our total estimated annualized cash rent as of December 31, 2022. Because the leases are triple-net leases, in addition to the rent payment obligations for these tenants, we depend on these tenants to pay substantially all insurance, taxes, utilities and maintenance and repair expenses in connection with these leased properties and to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their businesses. There can be no assurance that our significant tenants will have sufficient assets, income or access to financing to enable them to satisfy their payment and other obligations under their leases with us, or that the applicable guarantor will be able to satisfy its guarantee of the applicable tenant’s obligations. Our tenants rely on the properties they or their respective subsidiaries own and/or operate for income to satisfy their obligations, including their debt service requirements and rental and other payments due to us or others. If income at these properties were to decline for any reason, or if a tenant’s debt service requirements were to increase or if their creditworthiness were to become impaired for any reason, a tenant or the applicable guarantor may become unable or unwilling to satisfy its payment and other obligations under their leases or other agreements with us. The inability or unwillingness of a significant tenant to meet its payment or other obligations under a lease or other payment obligation with us could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects, including our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The gaming and entertainment industry is highly competitive and our tenants’ failure to continue to compete successfully could adversely affect their businesses, financial conditions, results of operations, and cash flows. In particular, our tenants’ businesses may be adversely impacted by the reinvestment and expansion by competitors in existing jurisdictions, an expansion of gaming in existing jurisdictions or into new jurisdictions in which gaming was not previously permitted, which would result in increased competition in these jurisdictions. Additionally, the casino entertainment industry represents a significant source of tax revenues to the various jurisdictions in which casinos operate. From time to time, various state and federal legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, including increases in tax rates, which would affect the industry. If adopted, such changes could adversely impact the business, financial condition, and results of operations of our significant tenants. Due to our dependence on rental and other payments from our significant tenants as our primary source of revenue, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights under our Lease Agreements or other agreements with our significant tenants or terminate such other agreements or, due to our predominantly master lease structure, certain leases with respect to any particular property. Failure by our significant tenants to comply with the terms of their respective leases or to comply with the gaming regulations to which the leased properties are subject could result in, among other things, the termination of an applicable Lease Agreement, requiring us to find another tenant for such property, to the extent possible, or a decrease or cessation of rental payments by such tenants, as the case may be. In such event, we may lose our interest in a property subject to an applicable ground lease or be unable to locate a suitable, creditworthy tenant at similar rental rates or at all, which would have the effect of reducing our rental revenues and could have a material adverse effect on us. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events or any other related matters could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, prospects and the value of our common stock. 22 Because a concentrated portion of our revenues are generated from the Las Vegas Strip, we are subject to greater risks than a company that is more geographically diversified. Our properties on the Las Vegas Strip generated approximately 45% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2022 and we expect this concentration to continue in the foreseeable future. Therefore, our business may be significantly affected by risks common to the Las Vegas tourism industry. For example, the cost and availability of air services and the impact of any events that disrupt air travel to and from Las Vegas can adversely affect the business of our tenants. We cannot control the number or frequency of flights to or from Las Vegas, but our two largest tenants (Caesars and MGM) rely on air traffic for a significant portion of their visitors to these properties and any reductions in flights to Las Vegas may impact the number of visitors to our properties.  Additionally, there is one principal interstate highway between Las Vegas and Southern California, where a large number of the customers that frequent our properties on the Las Vegas Strip reside. Any limitations on travel from Southern California to our properties on the Las Vegas Strip, such as capacity constraints of that highway or any other traffic disruptions, may also affect the number of customers who visit our facilities. Moreover, due to the importance of our ten properties on the Las Vegas Strip, we may be disproportionately affected by general risks such as acts of terrorism, natural disasters, including major fires, floods and earthquakes, severe or inclement weather, and climate change impacts, including heat stress, water stress, and drought, should such developments occur in or nearby, or otherwise impact, Las Vegas. In addition, a material adverse impact on Caesars and/or MGM, even unrelated to their operations in Las Vegas, that negatively affects their financial condition, could materially and adversely affect us, given our reliance on their performance as tenants in our properties on the Las Vegas Strip. Our tenants are required to pay a significant portion of their cash flow from operations to us pursuant to, and subject to the terms and conditions of, our respective Lease Agreements and loan and other agreements with them. These lease payments, as well as interest payments on their outstanding indebtedness, could adversely affect our tenants’ business and financial condition, as well as their ability to satisfy their contractual payment obligations to us. Our tenants and their subsidiaries are required to pay a significant portion of their cash flow from operations to us pursuant to, and subject to the terms and conditions of, our respective Lease Agreements and loan and other agreements with them. For example, our two largest tenants, Caesars and MGM, are obligated to pay us approximately $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively, in estimated annual payments for 2023 under (i) the Caesars Leases and Caesars’ other agreements with us, and (ii) the MGM Master Lease and the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay Lease, respectively. In addition, annual rent escalations under our Lease Agreements over specified periods will generally continue to apply regardless of the amount of cash flows generated by the properties that are subject to such Lease Agreements. Through our Partner Property Growth Fund, we may agree with our tenants to fund capital improvements in exchange for increased rent under the applicable Lease Agreement, which would increase the amount of such tenant’s rent obligations to us in accordance with the terms of the funding. Accordingly, if the cash flows generated by such properties decrease, do not increase at the same rate as the rent escalations, or do not increase as anticipated in connection with any such capital improvements, the rents payable under such Lease Agreements will comprise a higher percentage of the cash flows generated by the applicable tenant and its subsidiaries, which could make it more difficult for the applicable subsidiaries to meet their payment obligations to us under the Lease Agreements and could ultimately adversely affect the applicable guarantor’s ability to satisfy their respective obligations to us under the related guarantees. See and for additional information regarding such agreements. If our significant tenants’ businesses and properties fail to generate sufficient earnings, they may be unable to satisfy their (or their subsidiaries’) obligations under their respective Lease Agreements and loan and other agreements, including related guarantees. Additionally, these obligations may limit our significant tenants’ ability to fund their operations or development projects, raise capital, make acquisitions, and otherwise respond to competitive and economic changes by making investments to maintain and grow their portfolio of businesses and properties, which may adversely affect their competitiveness and the ability of their applicable subsidiaries and guarantors to satisfy their obligations to us under the applicable Lease Agreements and the related guarantees, respectively.  Moreover, given the importance of our significant tenants to our business, a failure on the part of a significant tenant to maintain its business performance or experience any deterioration of its creditworthiness could materially and adversely affect us, even in the absence of a default under our agreements with such tenant. In addition, our tenants’ indebtedness and the fact that a significant portion of their cash flow may be used to make interest payments could adversely affect their ability to satisfy their obligations to us under the applicable Lease Agreements and other agreements. 23 We are dependent on the gaming industry and may be susceptible to the risks associated with it, including changes in consumer behavior and discretionary spending as a result of an economic slowdown, increased inflation, rising interest rates, or otherwise, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. As the landlord and owner of gaming facilities, we are impacted by the risks associated with the gaming industry. Therefore, so long as our investments are concentrated in gaming-related assets, our success is dependent on the gaming industry, which could be adversely affected by economic conditions in general, changes in consumer trends and preferences and other factors over which we and our tenants have no control, including the COVID-19 pandemic and other similar health crises, labor shortages, travel restrictions, supply chain disruptions and property closures. As we are subject to risks inherent in substantial investments in a single industry, a decrease in the gaming business would likely have a greater adverse effect on us than if we owned a more diversified real estate portfolio, particularly because, among other things, a component of the rent under certain of the Lease Agreements will be based, over time, on the performance of the gaming facilities operated by our tenants on our properties and such effect could be material and adverse to our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. The gaming industry is characterized by a high degree of competition among a large number of participants, including land-based casinos, riverboat casinos, dockside casinos, video lottery, sweepstakes and poker machines not located in casinos, Native American gaming, emerging varieties of internet gaming, sports betting and other forms of gaming in the United States and, in a broader sense, gaming operators face competition from all manner of leisure and entertainment activities. Gaming competition is intense in most of the markets where our facilities are located. In recent years, there has been additional significant competition in the gaming industry as a result of, among other things, the upgrading or expansion of facilities by existing market participants, the entrance of new gaming participants into a market, increased internet gaming and sports betting or legislative changes in various jurisdictions. As competing properties and new markets are opened, we may be negatively impacted. Historically, economic indicators such as GDP growth, consumer confidence and employment are correlated with demand for gaming, entertainment and leisure properties, such as casinos and racetracks, and economic recessions, contractions or slowdowns have generally led to a decrease in discretionary spending on associated leisure activities. Decreases in discretionary spending or changing consumer preferences and weakened general economic conditions such as, but not limited to, recessions, lackluster recoveries from recessions, contractions, high unemployment levels, higher income taxes, inflation, low levels of consumer confidence, weakness in the housing market, cultural and demographic changes, instability in global, national and regional economic activity and increased stock market volatility have historically resulted in long-term material adverse effects on leisure and business travel, discretionary spending and other areas of economic behavior that directly impact the gaming industry and, as a result, may negatively impact our revenues and operating cash flows. Because we are dependent on the gaming industry, the immediate and long-term effects of the foregoing on the gaming industry could be material and adverse to our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. We and our tenants face extensive regulation from gaming and other regulatory authorities, and our charter provides that any of our shares held by investors who are found to be unsuitable by state gaming regulatory authorities are subject to redemption. The ownership, operation, and management of gaming and racing facilities are subject to extensive regulation by one or more gaming authorities in each applicable jurisdiction where gaming and racing facilities are permitted. These gaming and racing regulations impact our gaming and racing tenants and persons associated with our gaming and racing facilities, which in many jurisdictions include us as the landlord and owner of the real estate. Certain gaming authorities in the jurisdictions in which we hold properties may require us and/or our affiliates to maintain a license as a principal, key business entity or supplier because of our status as landlord. Gaming regulatory authorities also retain great discretion to require us to be found suitable as a landlord, and certain of our stockholders, officers and directors may be required to be found suitable as well. Gaming regulatory authorities also have broad powers with respect to the licensing of casino operations, and may revoke, suspend, condition or limit the gaming or other licenses of our tenants, impose substantial fines or take other actions, any one of which could adversely impact the business, financial condition and results of operations of our tenants. In addition, in many jurisdictions, licenses are granted for limited durations and require renewal from time to time. In many jurisdictions, gaming laws can require certain of our stockholders to file an application, be investigated, and qualify or have such person or entity’s suitability determined by gaming authorities. Gaming authorities have very broad discretion in determining whether a stockholder is required to file an application and whether an applicant should be deemed suitable. Subject to certain administrative proceeding requirements, the gaming regulators have the authority to deny any application or limit, condition, restrict, revoke or suspend any license, registration, finding of suitability or approval, or fine any person licensed, registered or found suitable or approved, for any cause deemed reasonable by the gaming authorities. 24 Gaming authorities may conduct investigations into the conduct or associations of our directors, officers, key employees or investors to ensure compliance with applicable standards. If we are required to be found suitable and are found suitable as a landlord, we will be registered as a public company with the gaming authorities and will be subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to be a stockholder or to have any other relationship with us, we: • pay that person any distribution or interest upon any of our securities; • allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right conferred through securities held by that person; • pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or • fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require such unsuitable person to relinquish his or her securities, including, if necessary, the immediate redemption of such securities in accordance with our charter. Many jurisdictions also require any person who acquires beneficial ownership of more than a certain percentage of voting securities of a gaming company and, in some jurisdictions, non-voting securities, typically 5% of a publicly traded company, to report the acquisition to gaming authorities, and gaming authorities may require such holders to apply for qualification, licensure or a finding of suitability, subject to limited exceptions for “institutional investors” that hold a company’s securities for passive investment purposes only. Our outstanding shares of capital stock are held subject to applicable gaming laws. Any person owning or controlling at least 5% of the outstanding shares of any class of our capital stock is required to promptly notify us of such person’s identity and apply for qualification, licensure, finding of suitability, or an institutional investor waiver, as applicable. Some jurisdictions may also limit the number of gaming licenses in which a person may hold an ownership or a controlling interest. Further, certain of our directors, officers, key employees and investors in our shares must meet approval standards of certain gaming regulatory authorities depending on the jurisdiction. If such gaming regulatory authorities were to find such a person or investor unsuitable, we may be required to sever our relationship with that person or the investor may be required to dispose of his, her or its interest in us. Our charter provides that all of our shares held by investors who are found to be unsuitable by regulatory authorities are subject to redemption upon our receipt of notice of such finding. Additionally, because we and our tenants are subject to regulation in numerous jurisdictions, and because regulatory agencies within each jurisdiction review compliance with gaming laws in other jurisdictions, it is possible that gaming compliance issues in one jurisdiction may lead to reviews and compliance issues in other jurisdictions. The loss of gaming licenses by our tenants could result in, among other things, the cessation of operations at one or more of the facilities we lease to such tenants.  The loss of gaming licenses by us could result in, among other things, an event of default under certain of our indebtedness, and cross-default provisions in our debt agreements could cause an event of default under one debt agreement to trigger an event of default under our other debt agreements. Finally, substantially all material loans, significant acquisitions, leases, sales of securities and similar financing transactions by us and our subsidiaries must be reported to, and in some cases approved by, gaming authorities in advance of the transaction. Changes in control through merger, consolidation, stock or asset acquisitions, management or consulting agreements, or otherwise may be subject to receipt of prior approval of certain gaming authorities. Entities seeking to acquire control of us or one of our subsidiaries (and certain of our affiliates) must satisfy gaming authorities with respect to a variety of stringent standards prior to assuming control. Failure to satisfy the stringent licensing standards may preclude entities from acquiring an ownership or a controlling interest in us or one of our subsidiaries (and certain of our affiliates) and/or require the entities to divest such interest. Our pursuit of investments in, and acquisitions of, experiential assets and other strategic opportunities may be unsuccessful or fail to meet our expectations, and we may not identify all potential costs and liabilities in connection with our acquisition of such properties. We intend to continue to pursue acquisitions of gaming, hospitality, entertainment and leisure sector properties and activities directly related thereto, which we refer to as “experiential assets” and other strategic opportunities. Accordingly, we may often be engaged in evaluating potential transactions and other strategic alternatives, including through discussions with potential counterparties. In addition, from time to time, we have entered, and may in the future enter, into strategic arrangements with counterparties, which arrangements may be non-binding or subject to conditions, including the negotiation of definitive documentation. There is no guarantee that any of these discussions or arrangements will result in definitive agreements, the completion of any transaction, or the realization of the anticipated benefits of any transaction and pursuing these opportunities may require the allocation of a significant amount of our management resources to such a transaction, which could negatively impact our operations. Additionally, we may not identify all potential costs and liabilities in the course of our due diligence in connection with these opportunities. In the event that a cost or liability is not adequately identified in the course of such due diligence or addressed in the course of negotiating such transaction, we may not fully realize the anticipated benefit of such 25 transaction, if at all, or our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive industry and face competition from other REITs, investment companies, private equity firms and hedge funds, sovereign funds, lenders, gaming companies and other investors, some of whom are significantly larger and have greater resources, access to capital and lower costs of capital or different investment parameters. Increased competition will make it more challenging to identify and successfully capitalize on transaction opportunities that meet our investment objectives. If we cannot identify and purchase or make investments in a sufficient quantity of gaming properties and other experiential properties at favorable prices or if we are unable to finance transactions on commercially favorable terms, our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, the fact that we must distribute 90% of our REIT taxable income in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT may limit our ability to rely upon rental payments from our leased properties or subsequently acquired properties in order to finance transactions. As a result, if debt or equity financing is not available on acceptable terms, further transactions might be limited or curtailed. Investments in and acquisitions of gaming properties and other experiential properties, as well as investments in our existing properties through our Partner Property Growth Fund, entail risks associated with real estate investments generally, including that the investment’s performance will fail to meet expectations, that the cost estimates for necessary property improvements will prove inaccurate or that the operator or manager will underperform. Adverse economic and market conditions, including rising interest rates and market volatility, as well as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, also present challenges with respect to assessing a potential counterparties’ historical and projected performance, as well as underlying asset values.  In addition, we may not realize the benefits of our Partner Property Growth Fund opportunities on a timely basis, or at all, and such opportunities may be dependent upon independent decisions made by our tenants with respect to any capital improvement projects and the source of funds for such projects, as well as the total funding ultimately requested under such arrangements. In addition, our Partner Property Growth Fund opportunities may be subject to the negotiation of definitive documentation or other conditions, or additional terms and conditions pursuant to our existing Lease Agreements or separate agreements we may enter into with our tenants with respect to such opportunities. Further, even if we are able to acquire or invest in additional properties in the future, there is no guarantee that such properties will be able to maintain their historical performance or achieve their projected performance, which may prevent the ability of our tenants to pay the partial or total amount of the required lease payments under the respective Lease Agreements or our borrowers to fulfill their payment obligations under the applicable agreement. In addition, our financing of these acquisitions and investments could negatively impact our cash flows and liquidity, require us to incur substantial debt or involve the issuance of new equity, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders. Due to market considerations and in light of the timing typically required to obtain regulatory approvals for gaming transactions, any such financing may take place substantially in advance of closing of such transaction (and the receipt of rent or other payments under a lease or other applicable agreement) and negatively impact our operating results during such period. In addition, we cannot make assurances that we will be successful in implementing our business and growth strategies or that any additional transactions will improve our operating results. The failure to identify and acquire or invest in new properties effectively, or the failure of any acquired properties to perform as expected, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We are subject to additional risks due to the location of properties that we own, or may acquire in the future, outside the United States. In connection with our recently completed acquisition of the real estate assets of the PURE Portfolio, we acquired our first properties outside the United States. Additionally, we may in the future acquire or make investments in additional properties located in other countries, including Canada. The value of the PURE Portfolio and any other properties we purchase in non-U.S. jurisdictions may be affected by factors specific to the laws and business practices of such jurisdictions. The laws and business practices of foreign jurisdictions may expose us to risks that are different from and in addition to those commonly found in the United States, including, but not limited to, the following: (i) the burden of complying with non-U.S. laws including land use and zoning laws or more stringent environmental laws; (ii) existing or new laws relating to the foreign ownership of real property and laws restricting our ability to repatriate earnings and cash into the United States; (iii) the potential for expropriation; (iv) adverse effects of changes in the exchange rate between U.S. dollars and foreign currencies in which revenue is generated at our properties outside the United States; (v) imposition of adverse or confiscatory taxes, changes in real estate and other tax rates or laws and changes in other operating expenses in such foreign jurisdictions; (vi) possible challenges to the anticipated tax treatment of our revenue and our properties; (vii) the potential difficulty of enforcing rights and obligations in other countries; and (viii) our more limited experience and expertise in foreign countries relative to our experience and expertise in the United States. 26 Required regulatory approvals can delay or prohibit transfers of our gaming properties or the consummation of transactions (including pursuant to our put-call and right of first refusal agreements), which could result in periods in which we are unable to receive rent related to, or otherwise realize the benefits of, such transactions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. Our tenants are (and any pending and future tenants of our gaming properties will be) required to be licensed under applicable law in order to operate any of our properties as gaming facilities. If the Lease Agreements, or any future lease agreement we enter into, are terminated (which could be required by a regulatory agency) or expire, any new tenant must be licensed and receive other regulatory approvals to operate our properties as gaming facilities. Any delay in, or inability of, the new tenant to receive required licenses and other regulatory approvals from the applicable state and county government agencies may prolong the period during which we are unable to collect the applicable rent. Further, in the event that the Lease Agreements or future lease agreements are terminated or expire and a new tenant is not licensed or fails to receive other regulatory approvals, the properties may not be operated as gaming facilities and we will not be able to collect the applicable rent. Moreover, we may be unable to transfer or sell the affected properties as gaming facilities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. In addition, given the highly regulated nature of the gaming industry, any future transactions we enter into (including pursuant to our put-call and right of first refusal agreements) are likely to be subject to regulatory approval in one or more jurisdictions, including with respect to any transfers in ownership, operating licensure or other regulatory considerations. If the consummation of a transaction (including with respect to the future entry into a new lease agreement) is delayed or prohibited by regulatory authorities, we may be limited or otherwise unable to realize the benefits of the proposed transaction. Our long-term, triple-net leases may not result in fair market lease rates over time, which could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows and reduce the amount of funds available to make distributions to stockholders. All of our rental revenue and a substantial majority of our total revenue is generated from the Lease Agreements, which are long-term triple-net leases and provide greater flexibility to the respective tenants related to the use of the applicable leased property than would be the case with ordinary property leases, such as the right to sublease certain portions of each leased property, to make alterations in the leased premises and to terminate the lease prior to its expiration under specified circumstances. Furthermore, consistent with typical triple-net leases, our Lease Agreements have longer lease terms and, thus, there is an increased risk that contractual rental increases in future years will fail to result in fair market rental rates during those years. As a result, our results of operations and cash flows and distributions to our stockholders could be lower than they would otherwise be if we did not enter into long-term triple net leases. Inflation as measured by changes in the consumer price index (“CPI”) increased at an average of 5.6% in 2022. While certain of our Lease Agreements contain escalation provisions that are tied to changes in the CPI, these annual escalators in some cases do not apply until future periods as specified under the applicable Lease Agreements. In addition, certain of these annual escalators are subject to a maximum cap, which could result in lower rent escalation than any such CPI increase in a single year or over a longer period. For example, under the MGM Master Lease, the CPI escalator is fixed at 2.0% for two through ten of the MGM Master Lease and, for the remainder of the term, the escalator is the greater of 2.0% and CPI, subject to a 3.0% cap. As a result, our results of operations and cash flows and distributions to our stockholders could be lower than they would otherwise be if we did not enter into long-term triple net leases, or entered into such leases on different terms. Our tenants may choose not to renew the Lease Agreements. We enter into long-term lease agreements with our tenants, consisting of an initial lease term with the potential for the tenant to extend for multiple additional terms, which may be subject to additional terms and conditions. At the expiration of the initial lease term or of any additional renewal term thereafter, our tenants may choose not to renew the applicable Lease Agreement. If a Lease Agreement expires without renewal and we are not able to find suitable, credit-worthy tenants to replace the previous tenants on the same or more attractive terms, our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected, including our ability to make distributions to our stockholders at the then current level, or at all. In particular with respect to the coterminous nature of the Caesars Leases, this risk would be exacerbated if Caesars elected not to renew all such lease agreements at any one time. Our ability to sell or dispose of our properties may be limited by the contractual terms of our Lease Agreements or other agreements with our tenants, or otherwise impacted by matters relating to our real estate ownership. Our ability to sell or dispose of our properties may be hindered by, among other things, the fact that such properties are subject to the Lease Agreements, as the terms of the Lease Agreements require that a purchaser assume the Lease Agreements or, in certain cases, enter into a severance lease with the tenants for the sold property on substantially the same terms as contained in 27 the applicable Lease Agreement, which may make our properties less attractive to a potential buyer than alternative properties that may be for sale. In connection with the MGP Transactions, we entered into the MGM Tax Protection Agreement pursuant to which, subject to certain exceptions, we agreed to indemnify the Protected Parties (as defined in the MGM Tax Protection Agreement) for certain tax liabilities, during the Protected Period (as defined in the MGM Tax Protection Agreement), resulting from (i) the sale, transfer, exchange or other disposition of Protected Property (as defined in the MGM Tax Protection Agreement), (ii) a merger, consolidation, or transfer of all of the assets of, or certain other transactions undertaken by us pursuant to which the ownership interests of the Protected Parties in VICI OP are required to be exchanged in whole or in part for cash or other property, (iii) the failure of VICI OP to maintain approximately $8.5 billion of nonrecourse indebtedness allocable to the Protected Parties, which amount may be reduced over time in accordance with the MGM Tax Protection Agreement, and (iv) the failure of VICI OP or us to comply with certain tax covenants that would impact the tax liabilities of the Protected Parties. In addition, the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV previously entered into a tax protection agreement with MGM with respect to built-in gain and debt maintenance related to MGM Grand Las Vegas and Mandalay Bay, which is effective through mid-2029, and by acquiring MGP and subsequently the remaining 49.9% interest in the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV, we bear any indemnity under this existing tax protection agreement. In the event that we breach restrictions in these agreements, we will be liable for grossed-up tax amounts associated with the income or gain recognized as a result of such breach. Therefore, although it may be in the best interests of our stockholders for us to sell a certain property, it may be economically prohibitive for us to do so during the specified period because of these indemnity obligations. Any improvements to a property could also cause mechanic’s liens or similar liens to attach to, and constitute liens on, our interests in the properties. To the extent that such liens are recorded against any of our current or future properties, they may restrict our ability to sell or dispose of such properties while they remain in place. In addition, the holders of such liens may enforce them by court action and courts may cause the applicable properties to be sold to satisfy such liens, which could negatively impact our revenues, results of operations, cash flows and distributions to our stockholders. Further, holders of such liens could have priority over our stockholders in the event of bankruptcy or liquidation, and as a result, a trustee in bankruptcy may have difficulty realizing or foreclosing on such properties in any such bankruptcy or liquidation, and the amount of distributions our stockholders could receive in such bankruptcy or liquidation could be reduced. We may not be able to purchase properties pursuant to our rights under certain agreements, including put-call, call right, right of first refusal agreements and right of first offer agreements, if we are unable to obtain additional financing. In addition, pursuant to one such agreement, we may be forced to dispose of Harrah’s Las Vegas to Caesars, possibly on disadvantageous terms. Pursuant to certain put-call agreements, call agreements, right of first refusal agreements and right of first offer agreements, as further described in , we have certain rights to purchase the properties subject to these agreements, subject to the terms and conditions included in each agreement with respect to each property. In order to exercise these rights and any similar rights we obtain in the future or to fulfill our obligations with respect to certain put rights, we would likely be required to secure additional financing and our substantial level of indebtedness or other factors could limit our ability to do so on attractive terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us, we may not be able to exercise these rights and acquire these properties, including the Caesars Forum Convention Center, or to fulfill our obligations with respect to certain put rights. Even if financing with acceptable terms is available to us, we may not exercise any of these rights. Further, each of the transactions remains subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable agreements, including with respect to due diligence, applicable regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. These agreements are subject to additional terms and conditions that may impact our ability to acquire such properties. For example, the A&R Convention Center Put-Call Agreement also provides that if Caesars exercises the Convention Center Put Right and, among other things, the sale of the Caesars Forum Convention Center to us does not close, under certain circumstances, a repurchase right in favor of Caesars, which, if exercised, would result in the sale of the Harrah’s Las Vegas property by us to Caesars. Such a sale may be at disadvantageous terms and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. The bankruptcy or insolvency of any tenant, borrower or guarantor could result in the termination of the Lease Agreements, the related guarantees or loan agreements and certain Lease Agreements being re-characterized as disguised financing transactions, resulting in material losses to us. We are subject to the credit risk of our tenants and borrowers in connection with the rental and other obligations owed to us under applicable leases, guarantees, and other financing agreements. We cannot provide assurances that our tenants and borrowers will not default on their obligations and fail to make payments to us. In particular, disruptions in the financial and credit markets, local economic conditions and other factors affecting the gaming industry, including the COVID-19 pandemic, 28 may affect our tenants’ and borrowers’ ability to obtain financing to operate their businesses or continue to profitability execute their business plans. This, in turn, may cause our tenants and borrowers to be unable to meet their financial obligations, including making rental or loan payments to us, as applicable, which may result in their bankruptcy or insolvency. In addition, in the event of a bankruptcy of our tenants, borrowers or their respective guarantors, any claim for damages under the applicable lease, loan agreement or guarantee may not be paid in full. For these and other reasons, the bankruptcy of one or more of our tenants, borrowers or their respective guarantors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. Furthermore, with respect to tenants whose obligations are guaranteed by a single guarantor (including Caesars and MGM), although the tenants’ performance and payments are guaranteed, a default by the applicable tenant, or by the guarantor with regard to its guarantee, may cause a default under certain circumstances with regard to the entire portfolio covered by the respective Lease Agreements. In event of such a default, there can be no assurances that the tenants or the guarantor would assume the applicable Lease Agreements or the related guarantees, and if such Lease Agreements or guarantees were rejected, the tenant or the guarantor, as applicable, may not have sufficient funds to pay the damages that would be owed to us as a result of the rejection and we might not be able to find a replacement tenant on the same or better terms. In addition, if Caesars declares bankruptcy, our business could be materially and adversely affected if a bankruptcy court re-characterizes certain components of the Caesars Transaction, specifically the increase in annual rent payable to us associated with Caesars Palace Las Vegas and Harrah’s Las Vegas under the Las Vegas Master Lease as a disguised financing transaction. In the event of re-characterization, our claim under a lease agreement with respect to the additional rent acquired in the Caesars Transaction could either be secured or unsecured. Generally, the leases permit us to take steps to create and perfect a security interest in the leased property, but such attempts could be subject to challenge by the tenant or its creditors and, with respect to the additional rent acquired, there is no assurance that a court would find that portion of our claim to be secured. The bankrupt lessee and other affiliates of Caesars and their creditors under this scenario might have the ability to restructure the terms, including the amount owed to us under the applicable lease with respect to the additional rent. If approved by the bankruptcy court, we could be bound by the new terms and prevented from collecting such additional rent acquired in the Caesars Transaction, and our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. We may sell or divest different properties or assets after an evaluation of our portfolio of businesses. Such sales or divestitures could affect our costs, revenues, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. From time to time, we may evaluate our properties and may, as a result, sell or attempt to sell, divest, or spin-off different properties or assets, subject, if applicable, to the terms of the Lease Agreements. For example, in 2020 and 2021, we, together with Caesars, sold Harrah’s Reno, Bally’s Atlantic City and Harrah’s Louisiana Downs in accordance with the terms of the Regional Master Lease Agreement. These sales or divestitures could affect our costs, revenues, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and our ability to comply with applicable financial covenants. Divestitures have inherent risks, including possible delays in closing transactions (including potential difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals), the risk of lower-than-expected sales proceeds for the divested assets, and potential post-closing claims for indemnification. In addition, economic  conditions, such as high inflation or rising interest rates, and relatively illiquid real estate markets may result in fewer potential bidders and unsuccessful sales efforts with respect to potential sales or divestitures. Our properties and the properties securing our loans are subject to climate change, natural disasters, other adverse or extreme weather conditions, casualty and condemnation risks, and terrorist attacks or other acts of violence, the occurrence of which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our properties and our borrowers’ properties secured as collateral are located in areas that may be subject to climate change and other natural disasters, such as earthquakes, and adverse or extreme weather conditions, including, but not limited to, drought or water stress, heat stress, hurricanes and flooding. Such natural disasters or weather conditions may interrupt operations at the casinos, damage our properties, and reduce the number of customers who visit our facilities in such areas. A severe earthquake could damage or destroy our properties. In addition, our operations could be adversely impacted by a drought, water stress or other cause of acute water shortage. In Las Vegas and the surrounding region, a significant majority of water is sourced from the Colorado River and water levels in Lake Mead, which serves as a reservoir, have steadily declined in recent years, resulting in various regulatory bodies pursuing water conservation initiatives.  A severe drought or prolonged water stress experienced in Las Vegas and the surrounding region or in the other regions in which we own properties, as well as the potential impact of regulatory efforts to address such conditions, could adversely affect the business and financial results at our properties located in such regions.  Although the tenants and borrowers, as applicable, are required to maintain both property and business interruption insurance coverage, such coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits, including limitation on the coverage period for business interruption, and we cannot make assurances that we or our tenants will be able to fully insure such losses or fully collect, if at all, on claims resulting from such climate change impacts, natural disasters and extreme 29 weather conditions. While the Lease Agreements and existing loan agreements require, and lease agreements and loan agreements we may enter into in the future are expected to require, that comprehensive insurance and hazard insurance be maintained by the tenants and borrowers, as applicable, there are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. Insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement cost of a loss. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace the property after such property has been damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds received might not be adequate to restore the economic position with respect to such property. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds our policy coverage limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future cash flows from those properties. Furthermore, under such circumstances we may be required under the terms of our debt financing agreements to contribute all or a portion of insurance proceeds to the repayment of such debt, which may prevent us from restoring such properties to their prior state. If the insurance proceeds (after any such required repayment) were insufficient to make the repairs necessary to restore the damaged properties to a condition substantially equivalent to its state immediately prior to the casualty, we may not have sufficient liquidity to otherwise fund the repairs and may be required to obtain additional financing, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. Additionally, changes to applicable building and zoning laws, ordinances and codes since the initial construction of our properties may limit a tenant’s ability to restore the premises of a property to its previous condition in the event of a substantial casualty loss with respect to the property or the ability to refurbish, expand or renovate such property to remain compliant, or increase the cost of construction in order to comply with changes in building or zoning codes and regulations. If a tenant is unable to restore a property to its prior use after a substantial casualty loss or is required to comply with more stringent building or zoning codes and regulations, we may be unable to re-lease the space at a comparable effective rent or sell the property at an acceptable price, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. Terrorist attacks or other acts of violence may result in declining economic activity, which could harm the demand for services offered by our tenants and the value of our properties or collateral, either generally or with respect to a specific region or property, and might adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. Such a resulting decrease in demand could make it difficult for us to renew or re-lease our properties to suitable, credit-worthy tenants at lease rates equal to or above historical rates. Terrorist activities or violence also could directly affect the value of our properties through damage, destruction or loss, and the availability of insurance for such acts, or of insurance generally, might be lower or cost more, which could increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. To the extent that any of our tenants or borrowers are affected by future terrorist attacks or violence, its business similarly could be adversely affected, including the ability of our tenants or borrowers to continue to meet their obligations to us. These events might erode business and consumer confidence and spending and might result in increased volatility in national and international financial markets and economies. Any one of these events might decrease demand for real estate, decrease or delay the occupancy of our new or redeveloped properties, and limit our access to capital or increase our cost of raising capital. In addition, our Lease Agreements typically include provisions allowing the applicable tenant to either remove an individual facility from such lease or to terminate such lease in certain cases of casualty or condemnation within the final years of the lease term (as applicable), including, in the case of the Regional Lease Agreement and the MGM Master Lease, the tenant’s right to remove a facility in certain cases in which a casualty event representing damage in excess of a certain value threshold occurs to such facility during the final two years of the applicable lease term or a condemnation event occurs that renders such facility unsuitable for its primary intended use. If a facility is removed from a lease or a lease is terminated, in most cases we will likely lose the rent associated with the applicable affected facility or facilities, which would have a negative impact on our financial results. Following any such removal or termination, even if we are able to restore the affected property or any portion thereof, we could be limited to selling such property or leasing such property to a new tenant in order to obtain an alternate source of revenue, which may not happen on terms comparable to the previous lease, or at all. Extreme weather conditions such as flooding, water stress and heat stress caused by climate change may adversely affect our business. Pursuant to an assessment from a third-party environmental consultant, we evaluated the degree of risk our individual properties and overall portfolio are subject to due to the potential impact of flooding, heat stress, water stress, drought, extreme winds, wildfires, and seismic events, as well as other extreme weather conditions caused by climate change. The assessment determined that our properties are subject to varying degrees of risk with respect to these potential impacts and, with respect to 30 our overall portfolio, we determined that flooding, water stress and heat stress pose the greatest material risk to our properties, including: • water stress and heat stress risks at our Nevada properties; • flooding, heat stress and wind risks at our properties in the Southeast United States; • flooding and heat stress risks in the Midwest United States; and • flooding risks at our properties in the Northeast United States and West Virginia. Additionally, rising sea levels, changes in precipitation and temperature attributable to climate change, may decrease the value of our properties through physical damage, a decrease in demand and/or a decrease in rent for the properties located in the areas affected by these conditions.  If any of the climate and weather scenarios described above were to occur, we may incur material costs to address these conditions and protect such assets (to the extent not covered by our tenants under the terms of our leases) or may sustain damage, a decrease in value or total loss of such assets. In addition, extreme weather conditions caused by climate change may result in reduced economic activity in these areas, which could reduce consumer demand for our tenants’ operations at our properties and harm their operations and financial performance, which could reduce the rent payable to us under the Lease Agreements and make it difficult for us to renew or re-lease our properties on favorable lease terms, or at all. Over the long term, climate change impacts may adversely affect the viability of our tenants’ operations and continued investment in our properties, as well as the value of such properties. Furthermore, our insurance premiums may increase as a result of the threat of climate change or the effects of climate change may not be covered by our insurance policies. In addition, changes in federal and state legislation and regulations on climate change could result in increased capital expenditures to improve the energy efficiency of our existing properties or other related aspects of our properties in order to comply with such regulations or otherwise adapt to climate change. Any of the above could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. Certain properties are subject to restrictions pursuant to reciprocal easement agreements, operating agreements or similar agreements. Many of the properties that we own or that serve as collateral under our loan agreements are, and properties that we may acquire or lend against in the future may be, subject to use restrictions and/or operational requirements imposed pursuant to ground leases, restrictive covenants or conditions, reciprocal easement agreements or operating agreements or other instruments that could, among other things, adversely affect our ability to lease space to third parties, enforce our rights as a lender and otherwise realize additional value from these properties. Such property restrictions could include the following: limitations on alterations, changes, expansions, or reconfiguration of properties; limitations on transferability or use of properties; limitations affecting parking requirements; or restrictions on exterior or interior signage or facades. In certain cases, consent of the other party or parties to such agreements may be required when altering, reconfiguring, expanding or redeveloping. Failure to secure such consents when necessary may harm our ability to execute leasing strategies, which could adversely affect us. The loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success and ability to grow depends, in large part, upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team, particularly our Chief Executive Officer, our President and Chief Operating Officer, our Chief Financial Officer and our General Counsel. Any unforeseen loss of our executive officers’ services, or any negative market or industry perception with respect to them or arising from their loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not have key man or similar life insurance policies covering members of our executive management. We have employment agreements with our executive officers, but these agreements do not guarantee that any given executive will remain with us, and there can be no assurance that any such officers will remain with us. In addition, the appointment or replacement of certain key members of our executive management team may be subject to regulatory approvals based upon suitability determinations by gaming regulatory authorities in certain of the jurisdictions where our properties are located. If any of our executive officers is found unsuitable by any such gaming regulatory authorities, or if we otherwise lose their services, we would have to find alternative candidates and may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with real estate properties owned by us may materially impair the value of those investments. As an owner of real property, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. For example we engaged a third‐party energy and sustainability consultant who performed a regulatory compliance risk assessment that found that four of our properties are currently subject to active energy use benchmarking requirements due to their location. Although we do not operate or manage most of our properties, as they are subject to triple-net leases, we may 31 be held primarily or jointly and severally liable for costs relating to the investigation and clean-up of any property from which there has been a release or threatened release of a regulated material as well as other affected properties, regardless of whether we knew of or caused the release, and to preserve claims for damages. Further, some environmental laws create a lien on a contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and the costs the government incurs in connection with such contamination. Although under the Lease Agreements the tenants are required to indemnify us for certain environmental liabilities, including environmental liabilities they cause, the amount of such liabilities could exceed the financial ability of the applicable tenants or guarantors to indemnify us. In addition, the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease our properties or to borrow using our properties as collateral. If our separation from CEOC, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, CEOC could be subject to significant tax liabilities and in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify CEOC for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the Tax Matters Agreement. In connection with our separation from CEOC in 2017, the IRS issued a private letter ruling with respect to certain relevant issues, including relating to the separation and certain related transactions as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under certain provisions of the Code. The IRS ruling does not address certain requirements for tax-free treatment of the separation. CEOC received from its tax advisors a tax opinion substantially to the effect that, with respect to such requirements on which the IRS did not rule, such requirements should be satisfied. The IRS ruling and the tax opinion that CEOC received relied on (among other things) certain representations, assumptions and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, and the IRS ruling, and the opinion would not be valid if such representations, assumptions and undertakings were incorrect in any material respect. Notwithstanding the IRS ruling and tax opinion, the IRS could determine the separation should be treated as a taxable transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes if it determines any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the IRS ruling are false or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the IRS ruling. If the reorganization fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, in general, CEOC would be subject to tax as if it had sold our assets to us in a taxable sale for their fair market value, and CEOC’s creditors who received shares of our common stock pursuant to the Plan of Reorganization would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution in respect of their claims equal to the fair market value of such shares. Under the Tax Matters Agreement that we entered into with Caesars, we generally are required to indemnify Caesars against any tax resulting from the separation to the extent that such tax resulted from certain of our representations or undertakings being incorrect or violated. Our indemnification obligations to Caesars are not limited by any maximum amount. As a result, if we are required to indemnify Caesars or such other persons under the circumstances set forth in the Tax Matters Agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. We face risks associated with cybersecurity incidents and other significant disruptions of our information technology (IT) networks and related systems or those IT networks and systems of third parties. We use our own IT networks and related systems to access, store, transmit, and manage or support a variety of our business processes and information. We face risks associated with cybersecurity incidents and other significant disruptions of our IT networks and related systems, including as a result of cyber-attacks or cyber-intrusions over the internet, malware or ransomware, computer phishing attempts and other forms of social engineering. We have experienced cybersecurity events such as viruses and attacks on our IT systems. To date, none of these events have had a material impact on our operations or financial results. These cybersecurity incidents or other significant disruptions could be caused by persons inside our organization, persons outside our organization with authorized access to systems inside our organization or by individuals outside our organization through unauthorized access. The risk of a cybersecurity incident or disruption, particularly through cyber-attack or cyber-intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. Although we make efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our IT networks and related systems and we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a cybersecurity incident or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted cybersecurity incident or disruptions would not be successful or damaging to our operations. A cybersecurity incident or other significant disruption involving our IT networks and related systems could, among other things: (i) disrupt the proper functioning of our networks and systems; (ii) result in misstated financial reports, violations of loan covenants and/or missed reporting deadlines; (iii) result in our inability to monitor or 32 maintain our compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements; (iv) result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or others, which unauthorized parties could use to compete against us or for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes; (v) require significant management attention and resources to address or remedy any damages that result; (vi) subject us to claims for breach of contract, damages, credits, penalties or termination of certain agreements; (vii) subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including penalties, fines and investigations; and (viii) damage our reputation among our tenants and investors generally. Any or all of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions with respect to, and the market price of, our common stock. Additionally, increased regulation of data collection, use and retention practices, including self-regulation and industry standards, changes in existing laws and regulations, enactment of new laws and regulations, increased enforcement activity, and changes in interpretation of laws, could increase our cost of compliance and operation or otherwise harm us. In the conduct of our business, we and our tenants rely on relationships with third parties, including cloud data storage and other information technology service providers, contractors, and other external business partners, for certain functions or for services in support of key portions of our operations. These third-party entities are subject to similar risks as we are relating to cybersecurity, business interruption, and systems and employee failures and an attack against such third-party service provider or partner could have a material adverse effect on our business. There may be exceptions to our insurance coverage such that our insurance policies may not cover some or all aspects of a cybersecurity incident. Even where a cybersecurity incident is covered by our insurance, the insurance limits may not cover the costs of complete remediation and redress that we may be faced with in the wake of a cybersecurity incident. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds our available insurance coverage, or results in changes to our insurance policies (including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements), could have an adverse effect on us. In addition, we cannot be sure that our existing insurance coverage and coverage for errors and omissions will continue to be available on acceptable terms or that our insurers will not deny coverage as to any future claim. Properties within our portfolio are, and properties that we may acquire in the future are likely to be, operated and promoted under certain trademarks and brand names that we do not own. The brands under which our properties are operated are trademarks of their respective owners. In addition, properties that we may acquire in the future may be operated and promoted under these same trademarks and brand names, or under different trademarks and brand names we do not, or will not, own. During the term that our properties are managed by our tenants, we will be reliant on our tenants to maintain and protect the trademarks, brand names and other licensed intellectual property used in the operation or promotion of the leased properties. Operation of the leased properties, as well as our business and financial condition, could be adversely impacted by infringement, invalidation, unauthorized use or litigation affecting any such intellectual property. Moreover, if any of our properties are rebranded unsuccessfully, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects, as such properties may not enjoy comparable recognition or status under a new brand. A transition of management away from one of our tenants could also affect such property’s overall strategy and financial performance, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. Our board of directors may change our major corporate policies without stockholder approval and those changes may materially and adversely affect us. Our board of directors will determine and may eliminate or otherwise change our major corporate policies, including our acquisition, investment, financing, growth, operations and distribution policies. While our stockholders have the power to elect or remove directors, changes in our major corporate policies may be made by our board of directors without stockholder approval and those changes could adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects, the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and to satisfy our debt service requirements. The market price and trading volume of shares of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the stock markets generally may experience significant volatility, often unrelated to the operating performance of the individual companies whose securities are publicly traded. The trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. We cannot make assurances that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. If the market price or trading volume of our common stock declines, you may be unable to resell your shares at a profit, or at all. 33 Some of the factors, many of which are beyond our control, that could negatively affect the market price of our common stock or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations or distributions; • the annual yield from distributions on our common stock as compared to yields on other financial instruments; • changes in our earnings, revenues or adjusted funds from operations per share estimates; • changes in market interest rates that may cause purchasers of our shares to demand a higher yield; • the ongoing adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and responses thereto on us and our tenants; • rising inflation and falling consumer confidence levels resulting in a downturn in the United States or global economy; • publication of research reports about us, our tenants or the real estate or gaming industries; • adverse developments involving our tenants; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • market reaction to any additional capital we raise in the future, including availability and attractiveness of long-term debt financing in connection with future acquisitions; • our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; • our failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of future and any pending acquisitions and other transactions within the timeframe or to the extent anticipated by financial or industry analysts; • additions or departures of key personnel; • changes to major corporate policies made by our board of directors without stockholder approval; • risks relating to any existing or future forward sale agreements; • equity issuances by us, or future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by our existing or future stockholders, or the perception that such issuances or future sales may occur; • other actions by institutional stockholders; • securities class action litigation which could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources; • strategic actions taken by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestments, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; • speculation in the press or investment community about us, our tenants, our industry or the economy in general; • publication of research reports about us or our industry by securities analysts; • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business and operations or the gaming industry; • changes in tax or accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • failure to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes; • failure to satisfy the listing requirements of the NYSE or the requirements of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, as amended; • adverse conditions in the financial markets or general U.S. or international economic conditions, including those unrelated to our performance and those resulting from war, acts of terrorism, public health crises, and responses to such events; and • the occurrence of any of the other risk factors presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other SEC filings. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness and Financing We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, and expect to incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our indebtedness exposes us to the risk of default under our debt obligations, increases the risks associated with a downturn in our business or in the businesses of our tenants, and requires us to use a significant portion of our cash to service our debt obligations. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness and debt service requirements. As of December 31, 2022, we had approximately $15.45 billion in long-term indebtedness, consisting of (i) $13.95 billion of outstanding senior unsecured indebtedness and (ii) $1.5 billion of secured debt representing our 50.1% pro-rata portion of the $3.0 billion property-level debt secured by the MGM Grand Las Vegas and Mandalay Bay held in the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV. Subsequent to year-end, following our consummation of the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV Acquisition on January 9, 2023, the entirety of the $3.0 billion of 34 property-level secured debt will be reported on a consolidated basis in our Balance Sheet, thereby bringing our total long-term indebtedness to $17.05 billion (of which $3.0 billion is secured debt) as of January 9, 2023. As of December 31, 2022, we also had $2.5 billion of available capacity to borrow under the Revolving Credit Facility and $1.0 billion under the Delayed Draw Term Loan. Subsequent to year-end, (i) on January 6, 2023, we drew approximately $103.4 million on our Revolving Credit Facility in order to finance the PURE Canadian Gaming Transaction and (ii) on February 8, 2023, the Delayed Draw Term Loan facility expired undrawn in accordance with its terms. The Revolving Credit Facility includes the option to increase the revolving loan commitments by up to $1.0 billion in the aggregate to the extent that any one or more lenders (from the syndicate or otherwise) agree to provide such additional credit extensions. Payments of principal and interest under this indebtedness, or any other instruments governing debt we may incur in the future, may leave us with insufficient cash resources to pursue our business and growth strategies or to pay the distributions currently contemplated or necessary to qualify or maintain qualification as a REIT. Our substantial outstanding indebtedness or future indebtedness, and the limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements, could have other significant adverse consequences, including the following: • our cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments; • our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments may be increased; • we may be required to use a significant portion of our cash flow from operations for the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and we may be unable to borrow additional funds as needed or on favorable terms, which could, among other things, adversely affect our ability to capitalize upon emerging acquisition opportunities, including exercising our rights of first refusal, right of first offer and call rights described herein, or fund future working capital, operational and other corporate needs; • we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of our original indebtedness; • we may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms or at a loss; • we may be limited in our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and our industry, which could put us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors with less indebtedness; • the ability of VICI LP to distribute cash to us may be limited or prohibited, which would materially and adversely affect our ability to make distributions on our common stock; • we may fail to comply with the covenants in our loan documents, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate payment of outstanding loans; and • we may be unable to hedge floating rate debt, counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under our hedge agreements and these agreements may not effectively hedge interest rate fluctuation risk. If any one of these events were to occur, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, the market price of our common stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations, pay distributions to our stockholders or refinancing existing or future indebtedness could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the foreclosure on our properties could create REIT taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, which could result in entity level taxes to us or could adversely affect our ability to meet the distribution requirements necessary to qualify or maintain qualification as a REIT. In addition, the Code generally requires that a REIT distribute annually to its stockholders at least 90% of its REIT taxable income (with certain adjustments), determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gains, and that it pay tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that it distributes annually less than 100% of its REIT taxable income, including capital gains. VICI Golf is also subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates on any of its taxable income. In order to maintain our status as a REIT and avoid or otherwise minimize current entity-level U.S. federal income taxes, a substantial portion of our cash flow after operating expenses and debt service will be required to be distributed to our stockholders. Because of the limitations on the amount of cash available to us after satisfying our debt service obligations and our distribution obligations to maintain our status as a REIT and avoid or otherwise minimize current entity-level U.S. federal income taxes, our ability to pursue our business and growth strategies may be limited. Disruption in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our ability to access external financings for our growth and ongoing debt service requirements. We are reliant on the capital and credit markets to finance our growth because we are required to distribute to our stockholders an amount equal to at least 90% of our taxable income (other than net capital gains) each year in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT. We expect to issue additional equity and incur additional indebtedness in the future to finance new 35 asset acquisitions or investments or investments in our existing properties through our Partner Property Growth Fund, refinance our existing indebtedness, or for general corporate or other purposes. Our access to financing (both equity and debt) on favorable terms, or at all, depends on a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including general economic conditions, such as rising interest rates, inflation, economic recessions, contractions or slowdowns, our credit ratings and outlook, the willingness of lending institutions and other debt investors to grant credit to us and general conditions in the capital and credit markets, including price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions. In addition, when markets are volatile, access to capital and credit markets could be disrupted over an extended period of time and financial institutions may not have the available capital to meet their previous commitments to us under the Revolving Credit Facility and/or the Delayed Draw Term Loan. The failure of financial institutions to meet their funding commitments to us could have a material adverse effect on us, including as a result of making it difficult to obtain additional financing, or financing on favorable terms, that we may need for future growth and/or to refinance our existing indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the financing we need for the future growth of our business or to meet our debt service requirements (including refinancing our existing indebtedness), or that a sufficient amount of financing will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. Adverse changes in our credit rating may affect our borrowing capacity and borrowing terms. Our outstanding debt is periodically rated by nationally recognized credit rating agencies. The credit ratings are based upon our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial condition, and other factors viewed by the credit rating agencies as relevant to both our industry and the economic outlook. In April 2022, S&P Global Ratings and Fitch Ratings independently upgraded their respective credit ratings of VICI to investment grade in connection with the closing of the MGP Transactions. Our credit rating may affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financing we obtain, and there is no guarantee that we will realize increased access to capital or improved terms with respect to any financing we obtain as a result of credit rating upgrades (or that we will be able to maintain such upgraded credit ratings). Because we rely in part on debt financing to fund growth, an adverse change in our credit ratings, including actual changes and changes in outlook, or even the initiation of a review of our credit ratings that could result in an adverse change, could have a material adverse effect on us. Rising interest rates may increase our overall interest rate expense and could adversely affect our stock price. Interest rates have recently and are expected to continue to rise from historic lows, and the extent to which interest rates continue to rise or the duration of such heightened interest rates are uncertain. The rise in interest rates has increased our overall interest rate expense and may, along with any future interest rate increases, have an adverse impact on our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. This risk can be managed or mitigated by utilizing interest rate protection products including interest rate swaps and forward starting interest rate swaps. Although we have previously used and currently use such products with respect to a portion of our indebtedness, there is no assurance that we will use such products in the future, we will utilize any of these products effectively or that such products will be available to us. In addition, in a rising interest rate environment, new debt, whether fixed or variable, is likely to be more expensive, which could, among other things, make the financing of any acquisition or investment more expensive, and we may be unable to incur new debt or replace maturing debt with new debt at equal or better interest rates. Further, the dividend yield on our common stock (i.e., the annualized distributions per share of our common stock as a percentage of the market price per share of our common stock), will influence the market price of such common stock. Thus, an increase in market interest rates may lead prospective purchasers of our common stock to expect a higher dividend yield. In addition, higher interest rates would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease our cash available for distribution. Thus, higher market interest rates could also cause the market price of shares of our common stock to decline. Covenants in our debt agreements limit our operational flexibility, and a covenant breach or default could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain customary covenants, including restrictions on our ability to incur additional debt, sell certain asset and restrict certain payments, among other things. In addition, we are required to comply with certain financial maintenance covenants. A breach of any of these covenants or covenants under any other agreements governing our indebtedness could result in an event of default. Cross-default provisions in our debt agreements could cause an event of default under one debt agreement to trigger an event of default under our other debt agreements. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our debt agreements, our debt holders could elect to declare all outstanding debt under such agreements to be immediately due and payable. Defaults under our debt instruments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. 36 We have engaged and may engage in hedging or other derivative transactions that may limit gains or result in losses. We use derivatives from time to time to hedge certain of our liabilities, anticipated liabilities and foreign currency risk. Although the counterparties of these arrangements are major financial institutions, we are exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by the counterparties. This has certain risks, including losses on a hedge position, which may reduce the return on our investments. Such losses may exceed the amount invested in such instruments. In addition, counterparties to a hedging arrangement could default on their obligations. We may have to pay certain costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs, related to hedging transactions. Any such reduced gains or losses from these derivatives may adversely affect our business or financial condition. Future incurrences of debt, which would be senior to our shares of common stock upon liquidation, and/or issuance of preferred equity securities, which may be senior to our shares of common stock for purposes of distributions or upon liquidation, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may in the future attempt to increase our capital resources by incurring additional debt, including medium-term notes, trust preferred securities and senior or subordinated notes, or issuing preferred shares. If a liquidation event were to occur, holders of our debt securities and preferred shares and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our shares of common stock. In addition, our preferred stock, if issued, would likely limit our ability to make liquidating or other distributions to the holders of shares of our common stock under certain circumstances. Any future common stock offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of shares of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. Since our decision to issue debt securities, incur other forms of indebtedness or to issue additional common stock or preferred stock in the future will depend on future developments, market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, nature or success of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our issuing senior securities, incurring other senior obligations or issuing additional common stock in the future, which may reduce the market price of shares of our common stock, reduce cash available for distribution to common stockholders or dilute their stockholdings in us. Risks Related to our Status as a REIT We may incur adverse tax consequences if we have failed or fail, to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Code generally requires that a REIT distribute annually to its stockholders at least 90% of its REIT taxable income (with certain adjustments), determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gains, and that it pay tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that it distributes annually less than 100% of its REIT taxable income, including capital gains. In addition, a REIT is required to pay a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which the distributions it makes in a calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of its ordinary income, 95% of its capital gain net income and 100% of its undistributed income from prior years. As a result, in order to avoid or otherwise minimize current entity level U.S. federal income taxes, a substantial portion of our cash flow after operating expenses and debt service will be required to be distributed to our stockholders. We have operated, and intend to continue to operate, in a manner that we believe allows us to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the Code. We have not requested or plan to request a ruling from the IRS that we qualify as a REIT. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable treasury regulations that have been promulgated under the Code is greater in the case of a REIT that holds its assets through a partnership. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy a number of requirements, including requirements regarding the ownership of our stock and the composition of our gross income and assets. Also, a REIT must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its net taxable income, excluding any net capital gains. If we lose our REIT status, or are determined to have lost our REIT status in a prior year, such loss or failure would have a material and adverse effect on us. Additionally, we will face material tax consequences that would substantially reduce our cash available for distribution, including cash available to pay dividends to our stockholders, because: • we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax and state and local income taxes on our net income at regular corporate rates for the years we did not qualify for taxation as a REIT (and, for such years, would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to stockholders in computing our taxable income); • for tax years beginning after December 31, 2022, we would possibly also be subject to certain taxes enacted by the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 that are applicable to non-REIT corporations, including the corporate alternative minimum tax and the nondeductible one percent excise tax on certain stock repurchases; 37 • unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, neither we nor any “successor” corporation, trust or association could elect to be taxed as a REIT until the fifth taxable year following the year during which we were disqualified; • if we were to re-elect REIT status, we would have to distribute all earnings and profits from non-REIT years before the end of the first new REIT taxable year; and • for the five years following re-election of REIT status, upon a taxable disposition of an asset owned as of such re-election, we would be subject to corporate-level tax with respect to any built-in gain inherent in such asset at the time of re-election. Even if we retain our REIT status, if MGP, which merged into our existing subsidiary pursuant to the REIT Merger, loses its REIT status for a taxable year ending on or before the effective time of the REIT Merger, we would be subject to adverse tax consequences that would substantially reduce our cash available for distribution, including cash available to pay dividends to our stockholders, because: • unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, VICI, as the “successor” by merger to MGP for U.S. federal income tax purposes, could not elect to be taxed as a REIT until the fifth taxable year following the year during which MGP was disqualified; • VICI, as the successor by merger to MGP, would be subject to any corporate income tax liabilities of MGP, including penalties and interest; • assuming that we otherwise maintained our REIT qualification, we would be subject to corporate-level tax on the built-in gain in each asset of MGP existing at the time of the REIT Merger if we were to dispose of such MGP asset during the five-year period following the REIT Merger; and • assuming that we otherwise maintained our REIT qualification, we would succeed to any earnings and profits accumulated by MGP for taxable periods that it did not qualify as a REIT, and we would have to pay a special dividend and/or employ applicable deficiency dividend procedures (including interest payments to the IRS) to eliminate such earnings and profits (or if we do not timely distribute those earnings and profits, we could fail to qualify as a REIT). In addition, if there is an adjustment to MGP’s taxable income or dividends paid deductions, we could elect to use the deficiency dividend procedure in order to maintain MGP’s REIT status. That deficiency dividend procedure could require us to make significant distributions to our stockholders and to pay significant interest to the IRS. As a result of these factors, our failure or MGP’s failure (before the REIT Merger) to qualify as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would materially adversely affect the market value of our common stock. Qualification to be taxed as a REIT involves highly technical and complex provisions of the Code, and violations of these provisions could jeopardize our REIT qualification. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which only limited judicial and administrative authorities exist. Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize our REIT qualification. Our qualification as a REIT depends on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. In addition, our ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify as a REIT may depend in part on the actions of third parties over which we have no control or only limited influence, including in cases where we own an equity interest in an entity that is classified as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We may in the future choose to pay dividends in the form of our own common stock, in which case stockholders may be required to pay income taxes in excess of the cash dividends they receive. We may seek in the future to distribute taxable dividends that are payable in cash or our common stock. Taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for U.S. federal income tax purposes as to which non-corporate stockholders will generally be eligible for a deduction equal to 20% of such distributions. As a result, stockholders receiving dividends in the form of common stock may be required to pay income taxes with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received, if any. If a U.S. stockholder sells the common stock that it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our common stock at the time of the sale. In addition, in such case, a U.S. stockholder could have a capital loss with respect to the common stock sold that could not be used to offset such dividend income. Moreover, with respect to certain non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. federal income tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in common stock. Furthermore, such a taxable share dividend could be viewed as 38 equivalent to a reduction in our cash distributions, and that factor, as well as the possibility that a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, may put downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. Changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws, including the enactment of certain tax reform measures, could have a material and adverse effect on us. U.S. federal income tax laws governing REITs and other corporations and the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended at any time, potentially with retroactive effect. Changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws, including the possibility of major tax legislation, could have a material and adverse effect on us or our stockholders. We cannot predict whether, when, to what extent or with what effective dates new U.S. federal tax laws, regulations, interpretations or rulings will be issued. Prospective investors are urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the effect of potential changes to the U.S. federal tax laws on an investment in our common stock. We could fail to qualify to be taxed as a REIT if income we receive from our tenants is not treated as qualifying income. Under applicable provisions of the Code, we will not be treated as a REIT unless we satisfy various requirements, including requirements relating to the sources of our gross income. The complexity of these provisions of the Code and of the applicable treasury regulations that have been promulgated under the Code is greater in the case of a REIT such as us that holds its assets directly or indirectly through a partnership. Rents received or accrued by us from our tenants will not be treated as qualifying rent for purposes of these requirements if the leases are not respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes and instead are treated as service contracts, joint ventures, financings or some other type of arrangement. If some or all of our leases are not respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we may fail to qualify to be taxed as a REIT. Furthermore, our qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon our analysis of the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we may not obtain independent appraisals. In addition, subject to certain exceptions, rents received or accrued by us from any tenant (or affiliated tenants) will not be treated as qualifying rent for purposes of these requirements if we (or an actual or constructive owner of 10% or more of our stock) actually or constructively owns 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of such tenant’s stock entitled to vote or 10% or more of the total value of all classes of such tenant’s stock. Our charter provides restrictions on ownership and transfer of our shares of stock, including restrictions on such ownership or transfer that would cause the rents received or accrued by us from tenants to be treated as non-qualifying rent for purposes of the REIT gross income requirements. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that such restrictions will be effective in ensuring that rents received or accrued by us from tenants will not be treated as qualifying rent for purposes of REIT qualification requirements. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan. We generally must distribute annually to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (with certain adjustments), determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gains, in order for us to qualify as a REIT so that U.S. federal corporate income tax does not apply to our earnings that we distribute. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement and qualify for taxation as a REIT but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and including any net capital gains, we will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on any undistributed portion of such taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we distribute to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under U.S. federal tax laws. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the Code and to avoid or otherwise minimize paying entity level federal or excise tax (other than at any taxable REIT subsidiary of ours). We may generate taxable income greater than our income for financial reporting purposes prepared in accordance with GAAP. Further, we may generate taxable income greater than our cash flow from operations after operating expenses and debt service as a result of differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash or the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. In order to avoid or otherwise minimize current entity level U.S. federal income taxes, we will generally be required to distribute sufficient cash flow after operating expenses and debt service payments to satisfy the REIT distribution requirements. While we intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the Code, we may not have sufficient liquidity to meet the REIT distribution requirements. If our cash flow is insufficient to satisfy the REIT distribution requirements, we could be required to raise capital on unfavorable terms, sell assets at disadvantageous prices, distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions or issue dividends in the form of shares of our common stock to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our REIT taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid or otherwise minimize corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These 39 alternatives could increase our costs or change the value of our equity. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income and state or local income, property and transfer taxes. For example, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, we currently hold and expect in the future to hold some of our assets and conduct certain of our activities through one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries or other subsidiary corporations that will be subject to federal, state, and local corporate-level income taxes as regular C corporations (i.e., corporations generally subject to corporate-level income tax under Subchapter C of Chapter 1 the Code). In addition, we may incur a 100% excise tax on transactions with a taxable REIT subsidiary if they are not conducted on an arm’s length basis. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to liquidate or forgo otherwise attractive opportunities and limit our expansion opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, our sources of income, the nature of our investments in real estate and related assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may also be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. As a REIT, we must ensure that, at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and “real estate assets” (as defined in the Code), including certain mortgage loans and securities. The remainder of our investments (other than government securities, qualified real estate assets and securities issued by a taxable REIT subsidiary) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our total assets (other than government securities, qualified real estate assets and securities issued by a taxable REIT subsidiary) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 20% of the value of our total assets can be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. In addition, not more than 25% of our total assets may be represented by debt instruments issued by publicly offered REITs that are “nonqualified” debt instruments. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate from our portfolio, or contribute to a taxable REIT subsidiary, or forgo otherwise attractive investments in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition to the asset tests set forth above, to qualify as a REIT we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may be unable to pursue investments that would be otherwise advantageous to us in order to satisfy the source-of-income or asset-diversification requirements for qualifying as a REIT. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments. We may be subject to built-in gains tax on the disposition of certain of our properties. If we acquire in the future certain properties in tax-deferred transactions, which properties were held by one or more C corporations before they were held by us (such as all or substantially all of the properties acquired from CEOC pursuant to the formation transactions, as well as certain other properties we have acquired), we may be subject to a built-in gain tax on future disposition of such properties. If we dispose of any such properties during the five-year period following acquisition of the properties from the respective C corporation (i.e., during the five-year period following ownership of such properties by a REIT), we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax (and applicable state and local taxes) at the highest corporate tax rates on any gain recognized from the disposition of such properties to the extent of the excess of the fair market value of the properties on the date that they were contributed to or acquired by us in a tax-deferred transaction over the adjusted tax basis of such properties on such date, which are referred to as built-in gains. Similarly, if we recognize certain other income considered to be built-in income during the five-year period following the property acquisitions described above, we could be subject to U.S. federal tax under the built-in-gains tax rules. We would be subject to this corporate-level tax liability (without the benefit of the deduction for dividends paid) even if we qualify and maintain our status as a REIT. Any recognized built-in gain will retain its character as ordinary income or capital gain and will be taken into account in determining REIT taxable income and the REIT distribution requirements. Any tax on the recognized built-in gain will reduce REIT taxable income. We may choose to forego otherwise attractive opportunities to sell assets in a taxable transaction during the five-year built-in-gain recognition period in order to avoid this built-in-gain tax. However, there can be no assurance that such a taxable transaction will not occur. The 40 amount of any such built-in-gain tax could be material and the resulting tax liability could have a negative effect on our cash flow and limit our ability to pay distributions required to qualify and maintain our status as a REIT. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities. The REIT provisions of the Code substantially limit our ability to hedge our assets and liabilities. Income from certain hedging transactions that we may enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets or from transactions to manage risk of currency fluctuations with respect to any item of income or gain that satisfy the REIT gross income tests (including gain from the termination of such a transaction) does not constitute “gross income” for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests that apply to REITs, provided that certain identification requirements are met. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions or fail to properly identify such transaction as a hedge, the income is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may be required to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a taxable REIT subsidiary. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because the taxable REIT subsidiary may be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates that we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in the taxable REIT subsidiary will generally not provide any tax benefit, except that such losses could theoretically be carried back or forward against past or future taxable income of the taxable REIT subsidiary. If we are required to make a purging distribution, we may pay such purging distribution in a combination of common stock and cash. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute any “earnings and profits,” as defined in the Code, accumulated by us during any period for which we did not qualify as a REIT or by any entity whose accumulated earnings and profits we acquire during any period for which such entity did not qualify as a REIT. Based on our analysis, we do not believe that any earnings and profits were allocated to us in connection with any transaction to which we are party and therefore did not make a purging distribution and do not currently intend to make any purging distribution, with respect to transactions to which we are a party. If we are required to make a purging distribution in the future, we may pay the purging distribution to our stockholders in a combination of cash and shares of our common stock. Each of our stockholders will be permitted to elect to receive the stockholder’s entire entitlement under the purging distribution in either cash or shares of our common stock, subject to a cash limitation. If our stockholders elect to receive a portion of cash in excess of the cash limitation, each such electing stockholder will receive a pro rata portion of cash corresponding to the stockholder’s respective entitlement under the purging distribution declaration. The IRS has issued a revenue procedure that provides that, so long as a REIT complied with certain provisions therein, certain distributions that are paid partly in cash and partly in stock will be treated as taxable dividends that would satisfy the REIT distribution requirements and qualify for the dividends paid deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In a purging distribution, if any, a stockholder of our common stock will be required to report dividend income equal to the amount of cash and common stock received as a result of the purging distribution even though we may distribute no cash or only nominal amounts of cash to such stockholder. The cash available for distribution to stockholders may not be sufficient to pay dividends at expected levels, nor can we make assurances of our ability to make distributions in the future. We may use borrowed funds to make distributions. If cash available for distribution is less than the amount necessary to make cash distributions, our inability to make the expected distributions could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon various factors, including, but not limited to: our historical and projected financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and REIT taxable income, limitations contained in financing instruments, debt service requirements, operating cash inflows and outflows, including capital expenditures and acquisitions, limitations on our ability to use cash generated in one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries, if any, to fund distributions and applicable law. We may not be able to make distributions in the future. In addition, some of our distributions may include a return of capital. To the extent that we decide to make distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits in the future, such distributions would generally be considered a return of capital for federal income tax purposes to the extent of the holder’s adjusted tax basis in their shares. A return of capital is not taxable, but it has the effect of reducing the holder’s adjusted tax basis in our common stock. To the extent that such distributions exceed the adjusted tax basis of a holder’s shares, they will be treated as gain from the sale or exchange of such stock. If we borrow to fund distributions, our future interest costs would increase, thereby reducing our earnings and cash available for distribution from what they otherwise would have been. For purposes of satisfying the minimum distribution requirement to qualify for and maintain REIT status, our REIT taxable income will be calculated without reference to our cash flow. Consequently, under certain circumstances, we may not have available cash to make our required distributions, and we may need to raise additional equity or debt in order to fund our intended distributions, or we may distribute a portion of our distributions in the form of our common stock or debt instruments, 41 which could result in dilution or higher leverage, respectively. While the IRS has issued a revenue procedure indicating that certain distributions that are made partly in cash and partly in stock will be treated as taxable dividends that would satisfy that REIT annual distribution requirement and qualify for the dividends paid deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes, no assurance can be provided that we will be able to satisfy the requirements of the revenue procedure. Therefore, it is unclear whether and to what extent we will be able to make taxable dividends payable in-kind. In addition, to the extent we were to make distributions that include our common stock or debt instruments, a stockholder of ours will be required to report dividend income as a result of such distributions even though we distributed no cash or only nominal amounts of cash to such stockholder. The U.S. federal income tax treatment of the cash that we might receive from cash settlement of a forward sale agreement is unclear and could jeopardize our ability to meet the REIT qualification requirements. We enter into forward sale agreements from time to time and, subject to certain conditions, we have the right to elect physical, cash or net share settlement under these agreements at any time and from time to time, in part or in full. In the event that we elect to settle a forward sale agreement for cash and the settlement price is below the forward sale price, we would be entitled to receive a cash payment from the applicable forward purchaser(s). Under Section 1032 of the Code, generally, no gains and losses are recognized by a corporation in dealing in its own shares, including pursuant to a “securities futures contract,” as defined in the Code by reference to the Exchange Act. Although we believe that any amount received by us in exchange for our shares of common stock would qualify for the exemption under Section 1032 of the Code, because it is not entirely clear whether a forward sale agreement qualifies as a “securities futures contract,” the U.S. federal income tax treatment of any cash settlement payment we receive is uncertain. In the event that we recognize a significant gain from the cash settlement of a forward sale agreement, we might not be able to satisfy the gross income requirements applicable to REITs under the Code. If we were to fail to satisfy one or both of the gross income tests for any taxable year, we may nevertheless qualify as a REIT for such year if we were entitled to relief under certain provisions of the Code. If these relief provisions were inapplicable, we would not qualify to be taxed as a REIT. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure VICI is a holding company with no direct operations and relies on distributions received from VICI OP to make distributions to its stockholders. VICI is a holding company and conducts its operations through direct and indirect subsidiaries, including VICI OP and VICI Golf. VICI does not have, apart from the units that it owns in VICI OP and VICI Golf, any independent operations. As a result, VICI relies on distributions from VICI OP to make any distributions to its stockholders it might declare on its common stock and to meet any of its obligations, including any tax liability on taxable income allocated to it from VICI OP (which might not be able to make distributions to VICI equal to the tax on such allocated taxable income). In turn, the ability of subsidiaries of VICI OP to make distributions to VICI OP, and therefore, the ability of VICI OP to make distributions to VICI, depends on the operating results of these subsidiaries and VICI OP and on the terms of any financing arrangements they have entered into. In addition, because VICI is a holding company, claims of common stockholders of VICI are structurally subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and other obligations (whether or not for borrowed money) and any preferred equity of VICI OP and its subsidiaries. Therefore, in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, VICI’s assets and those of VICI OP and its subsidiaries will be available to satisfy the claims of VICI common stockholders only after all of VICI’s, VICI OP’s and its subsidiaries’ liabilities and other obligations and any preferred equity of any of them have been paid in full. VICI OP may, in connection with its acquisition of additional properties or otherwise, issue additional common units or preferred units to third parties. Such issuances would reduce VICI’s ownership in VICI OP. Because stockholders of VICI do not directly own common units or preferred units of VICI OP, they do not have any voting rights with respect to any such issuances or other partnership level activities of VICI OP. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited. The Maryland General Corporation Law (the “MGCL”) provides that a director has no liability in any action based on an act of the director if he or she has acted in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in the corporation’s best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. As permitted by the MGCL, our charter limits the liability of our directors and officers to our company and our stockholders for money damages, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. Under Maryland law, our present directors and officers will not have any liability to us or our stockholders for money damages other than liability resulting from: • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or • a final judgment based upon a finding that his or her action or failure to act was the result of active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer and was material to the cause of action adjudicated. 42 Our charter provides that we have the power to obligate ourselves, and our amended and restated bylaws obligate us, to indemnify our directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities and to pay or reimburse their reasonable expenses in advance of final disposition of a proceeding to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and executive officers that provide for indemnification and advancement of expenses to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist under common law. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent an acquisition of our common stock or a change in control. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions, the exercise or existence of which could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our stockholders or otherwise be in their best interests, including the following: • Our charter contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our stock. In order for us to qualify as a REIT, no more than 50% of the value of outstanding shares of our stock may be owned, beneficially or constructively, by five or fewer individuals (or certain other persons) at any time during the last half of each taxable year (“closely held”). Subject to certain exceptions, our charter prohibits any stockholder from owning beneficially or constructively, with respect to any class or series of our capital stock, more than 9.8% (in value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the aggregate of the outstanding shares of such class or series of our capital stock. The constructive ownership rules under the Code are complex and may cause the outstanding stock owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. As a result, the acquisition of 9.8% or less of the outstanding shares of a class or series of our stock by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity or another individual or entity to own constructively in excess of the relevant ownership limits. Among other restrictions on ownership and transfer of shares, our charter also prohibits any person from owning shares of our stock that would result in our being “closely held” under Section 856(h) of the Code or otherwise cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our common stock or of any of our other capital stock in violation of these restrictions may result in the shares being automatically transferred to a charitable trust or may be void. Our charter provides that our board may grant exceptions to the 9.8% ownership limit, subject in each case to certain initial and ongoing conditions designed to protect our status as a REIT. These ownership limits may prevent a third-party from acquiring control of us if our board of directors does not grant an exemption from the ownership limits, even if our stockholders believe the change in control is in their best interests. An exemption from the 9.8% ownership limit has previously been granted to certain stockholders, and our board may in the future provide exceptions to the ownership limit for other stockholders, subject to the aforementioned initial and ongoing conditions designed to protect our status as a REIT. • Our board of directors has the power to cause us to issue and authorize additional shares of our capital stock without stockholder approval. Our charter authorizes us to issue authorized but unissued shares of common or preferred stock in addition to the shares of common stock issued and outstanding. In addition, our board of directors may, without stockholder approval, amend our charter to increase the aggregate number of our shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue and classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common or preferred stock and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our board of directors may establish a class or series of shares of common or preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our shares of common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Certain provisions of Maryland law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us. Certain provisions of the MGCL may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from acquiring us or of impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our common stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price of such shares, including: • “business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, (a) prohibit certain business combinations between an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding shares of voting stock or an affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our then outstanding shares of our common stock) or an affiliate of any interested stockholder and us for five years after the 43 most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and (b) thereafter impose two super-majority stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and • “control share” provisions that provide that holders of “control shares” of our company (defined as voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned or controlled by the acquirer (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquirer to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights with respect to “control shares” except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all votes entitled to be cast by the acquirer of control shares, and by any of our officers and employees who are also our directors. Our charter provides that, notwithstanding any other provision of our charter or our bylaws, the Maryland Business Combination Act (Title 3, Subtitle 6 of the MGCL) does not apply to any business combination between us and any interested stockholder or any affiliate of any interested stockholder of ours and that we expressly elect not to be governed by the provisions of Section 3-602 of the MGCL in whole or in part. Pursuant to the MGCL, our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act any and all acquisitions by any person of shares of our stock. There can be no assurance that any of these provisions of our charter or bylaws will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. Additionally, provisions of Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL permit a Maryland corporation such as the Company, by action of its board of directors and without stockholder approval and regardless of what is provided in the charter or bylaws, to elect to avail itself of certain takeover defenses, such as a classified board, unless the charter or a resolution adopted by the board of directors prohibits such election. Our charter provides that we are prohibited from making any such election unless first approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of a majority of all votes entitled to be cast on the matter.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations of VICI Properties Inc. and VICI Properties L.P. for the year ended December 31, 2022 should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto and other financial information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis or set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including information with respect to our business and growth strategies, statements regarding the industry outlook and our expectations regarding the future performance of our business contained herein are forward-looking statements. See “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” You should also review the section in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by such forward-looking statements . OVERVIEW We are an owner and acquirer of experiential real estate assets across leading gaming, hospitality, entertainment and leisure destinations. Our geographically diverse portfolio currently consists of 49 gaming facilities in the United States and Canada, including Caesars Palace Las Vegas, MGM Grand and the Venetian Resort, three of the most iconic entertainment facilities on the Las Vegas Strip. Our entertainment facilities are leased to leading brands that seek to drive consumer loyalty and value with guests through superior services, experiences, products and continuous innovation. Across over 124 million square feet, our well-maintained properties are curren tly located across urban, destination and drive-to markets in fifteen states and Canada, contain approximately 59,300 hotel rooms and feature over 450 restaurants, bars, nightclubs, and sportsbooks. Our portfolio also includes certain real estate debt investments, most of which we have originated for strategic reasons in connection with transactions that either do or may provide the potential to convert our investment into the ownership of certain of the underlying real estate in the future. In addition, we own approximately 34 acres of undeveloped or underdeveloped land on and adjacent to the Las Vegas Strip that is leased to Caesars, which we may look to monetize as appropriate. We also own four championship golf courses located near certain of our properties, two of which are in close proximity to the Las Vegas Strip. We conduct our operations as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income taxes on our taxable income to the extent that we annually distribute all of our net taxable income to stockholders and maintain our qualification as a REIT. We believe our election of REIT status, combined with the income generation from the Lease Agreements and loans, will enhance our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, providing investors with current income as well as long-term growth, subject to market conditions and the national and international macroeconomic environment. We conduct our real property business through our operating partnership, VICI OP, and our golf course business through a TRS, VICI Golf. Key 2022 Highlights Operating Results • Collected 100% of rent in cash. • Total revenues increased 72.3% year-over-year to $2,600.7 million. • Net income attributable to common stockholders increased 10.2% year-over-year to  $1,117.6 million, and net income attributable to common stockholders per diluted share decreased 27.7% to $1.27, primarily due to the impact of our CECL allowance and an increased weighted average share count. • AFFO increased 61.7% year-over-year to $1,693.8 million and AFFO per diluted share increased 6.1% to $1.93. Significant Achievements • Announced and originated over $4.5 billion in transaction activity, including: ◦ the acquisition of Blackstone Real Estate Investment Trust, Inc.’s (“BREIT”) interest in the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV for $2,758.8 million, inclusive of our assumption of BREIT’s pro-rata share of the $3.0 billion CMBS debt, which upon closing on January 9, 2023 added $151.6 million of annualized rent to our portfolio; ◦ the acquisition of the Fitz Casino & Hotel and WaterView Casino & Hotel from Foundation Gaming for $293.4 million, which upon closing on December 22, 2022 added $24.3 million of annualized rent to our portfolio; 48 ◦ the acquisition of Rocky Gap Casino Resort for $203.9 million, which remains pending and subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approval, and upon closing will add $15.5 million of annualized rent to our portfolio through the Century Master Lease; and ◦ the origination of the following loans (each as defined below): (i) Fontainebleau Las Vegas Loan, (ii) Canyon Ranch Austin Loan, (iii) Great Wolf Northeast Loan, (iv) Great Wolf Gulf Coast Texas Loan, (v) Great Wolf South Florida Loan, (vi) Cabot Citrus Farms Loan and (vii) BigShots Loan, for aggregate total commitments of $1,223.9 million and weighted average interest rate of 8.98%. • Completed the previously announced MGP Transactions, which upon closing on April 29, 2022, added $1,012.2 million of annualized rent to our portfolio. • Completed the previously announced Venetian Acquisition, which upon closing on February 23, 2022, added $250.0 million of annualized rent to our portfolio. • Added to the S&P 500 Index on June 8, 2022. • Announced an increase in our quarterly cash dividend to $0.39 per share (or $1.56 per share on an annualized basis), representing a 8.3% increase compared to our previous quarterly dividend. • Completed an equity offering with an aggregate offering value of $580.0 million and sold 21,617,592 shares under our ATM Program for aggregate offering value of $715.9 million, all of which were subject to forward sale agreements and which were settled in January 2023 for aggregate net proceeds of $1,272.3 million. • Completed an inaugural $5.0 billion offering of investment grade senior unsecured notes and entered into $3.0 billion of forward-starting interest rate swap agreements and treasury locks to hedge a portion of the interest rate exposure, resulting in a weighted average interest rate of 4.51% with respect to the April 2022 Notes. • Entered into the Credit Facilities, including a $2.5 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility, and terminated our previous Secured Revolving Credit Facility. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACTIVITIES Acquisition Activity • MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV Interest Acquisition. Subsequent to year-end, on January 9, 2023, we closed on the previously announced acquisition of the remaining 49.9% interest in the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV (previously referred to as the “BREIT JV”) from BREIT (the “MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV Interest Acquisition”) for cash consideration of $1,261.9 million. We also assumed BREIT’s $1,497.0 million pro rata share of an aggregate $3.0 billion of property-level debt, which matures in 2032 and bears interest at a fixed rate of 3.558% per annum through March 2030. The cash consideration was funded through a combination of cash on hand and proceeds from the settlement of the November 2022 Forward Sale Agreements and ATM Forward Sale Agreements (each as defined in ). The MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay Lease currently has annual rent of $303.8 million, all of which will be reflected in our Financial Statements following the closing of the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV Interest Acquisition (and will have annual rent of approximately $310.0 million upon commencement of the next rental escalation on March 1, 2023). The MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay Lease has a remaining initial lease term of approximately 27 years (expiring in 2050), with two ten-year tenant renewal options. Rent under the lease agreement escalates annually at 2.0% through 2035 (year 15 of the initial lease term) and thereafter at the greater of 2.0% or CPI (subject to a 3.0% ceiling). • PURE Canadian Gaming Transaction. Subsequent to year-end, on January 6, 2023, we acquired the real estate assets of PURE Casino Edmonton, PURE Casino Yellowhead, PURE Casino Calgary, and PURE Casino Lethbridge, all of which are located in Alberta, Canada, from PURE Canadian Gaming for an aggregate purchase price of approximately C$271.9 million (approximately US$200.8 million based on the exchange rate at the time of the acquisition) (the “PURE Canadian Gaming Transaction”). We financed the PURE Canadian Gaming Transaction with a combination of cash on hand and by drawing down C$140.0 million (approximately US$103.4 million based on the exchange rate at the time of the acquisition) under our Revolving Credit Facility. Simultaneous with the acquisition, we entered into the PURE Master Lease, which has an initial annual rent of approximately C$21.8 million (approximately US$16.1 million based on the exchange rate at the time of the acquisition), an initial term of 25 years, with four 5-year tenant renewal options, escalation of 1.25% per annum (with escalation of the greater of 1.5% and Canadian CPI, capped at 2.5%, beginning in lease year four) and minimum capital expenditure requirements of 1.0% of annual net revenue (excluding gaming equipment). The tenant’s obligations under the PURE Master Lease are guaranteed by the parent entity of PURE Canadian Gaming. 49 • Foundation Gaming Transaction. On December 22, 2022, we acquired the real estate assets of the Fitz Casino & Hotel, located in Tunica, Mississippi, and the WaterView Casino & Hotel, located in Vicksburg, Mississippi, from Foundation Gaming for an aggregate purchase price of $293.4 million (the “Foundation Gaming Transaction”). We financed the Foundation Gaming Transaction with cash on hand. Simultaneous with the acquisition, we entered into the Foundation Master Lease, which has an initial annual rent of $24.3 million, an initial term of 15 years, with four 5-year tenant renewal options, escalation of 1.0% per annum (with escalation of the greater of 1.5% and CPI, capped at 3%, beginning in lease year four) and minimum capital expenditure requirements of 1.0% of annual net revenue (excluding gaming equipment) over a rolling three-year period. The tenants’ obligations under the Foundation Master Lease are guaranteed by the parent entity, Foundation Gaming. • Rocky Gap Casino Transaction. On August 24, 2022, we and Century Casinos entered into definitive agreements to acquire Rocky Gap Casino, located in Flintstone, Maryland, from Golden Entertainment, Inc. for an aggregate purchase price of $260.0 million. Pursuant to the transaction agreements, we will acquire an interest in the land and buildings associated with Rocky Gap Casino for approximately $203.9 million and Century Casinos will acquire the operating assets of the property for approximately $56.1 million. Simultaneous with the closing of the transaction, the Century Master Lease will be amended to include Rocky Gap Casino and annual rent will increase by $15.5 million. Additionally, the terms of the Century Master Lease will be extended such that, upon closing of the transaction, the lease will have a full 15-year initial base lease term remaining, with four 5-year tenant renewal options. The tenants’ obligations under the Century Master Lease will continue to be guaranteed by Century Casinos. The transaction is subject to customary regulatory approvals and closing conditions and is expected to close in mid-2023. • MGP Transactions. On April 29, 2022, we closed on the previously announced MGP Transactions governed by the MGP Master Transaction Agreement, pursuant to which we acquired MGP for total consideration of $11.6 billion, plus the assumption of approximately $5.7 billion principal amount of debt, inclusive of our 50.1% share of the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV CMBS debt. Upon closing, the MGP Transactions added $1,012.2 million of annualized rent to our portfolio from 15 Class A entertainment casino resort properties spread across nine regions and comprising 36,000 hotel rooms, 3.6 million square feet of meeting and convention space and hundreds of food, beverage and entertainment venues. Under the terms of the MGP Master Transaction Agreement, each outstanding MGP Class A common share was converted into 1.366 (the “Exchange Ratio”) shares of VICI common stock. The fixed Exchange Ratio represented an agreed upon price of $43.00 per share of MGP Class A common shares based on VICI’s trailing 5-day volume weighted average price of $31.47 as of July 30, 2021. MGM received $43.00 per unit in cash for the redemption of the majority of its MGP OP units that it held for total cash consideration of approximately $4.404 billion and also retained approximately 12.2 million units in VICI OP. The MGP Class B share that was held by MGM was cancelled and ceased to exist at the effective time of the Mergers. Simultaneous with the closing of the Mergers on April 29, 2022, we entered into the MGM Master Lease. The MGM Master Lease has an initial term of 25 years, with three 10-year tenant renewal options and has an initial total annual rent of $860.0 million. Rent under the MGM Master Lease escalates at a rate of 2.0% per annum for the first 10 years and thereafter at the greater of 2.0% per annum or the increase in CPI, subject to a 3.0% cap. The total annual rent under the MGM Master Lease was reduced by $90.0 million upon the close of MGM’s sale of the operations of the Mirage to Hard Rock and entrance into the Mirage Lease on December 19, 2022, and further reduced by $40.0 million upon the close of MGM’s sale of the operations of Gold Strike on February 15, 2023 (which takes the total annual rent under the MGM Master Lease to $730.0 million), each as described below. Additionally, we retained a 50.1% ownership stake in the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV, which owns the real estate assets of MGM Grand Las Vegas and Mandalay Bay. The MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay Lease provides for current total annual base rent of approximately $303.8 million, of which approximately $152.2 million was attributable to our investment in the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV as of December 31, 2022, and an initial term of thirty years with two 10-year tenant renewal options. Rent under the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay Lease escalates at a rate of 2.0% per annum for the first 15 years and thereafter at the greater of 2.0% per annum or CPI, subject to a 3.0% cap. Subsequent to year-end, on January 9, 2023, we closed on the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV Interest Acquisition and accordingly own 100% of the interest in the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV. On a combined basis, as of January 9, 2023, we receive approximately $1,073.8 million of annual rent under th e MGM Master Lease and MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay Lease . Refer to “ MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV Interest Acquisition ” above for further details. The tenant’s obligations under the MGM Master Lease and the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay Lease continue to be guaranteed by MGM. • Venetian Acquisition. On February 23, 2022, we closed on the previously announced transaction to acquire all of the land and real estate assets associated with the Venetian Resort from Las Vegas Sands Corp. (“LVS”) for $4.0 billion in cash, and the Venetian Tenant acquired the operating assets of the Venetian Resort for $2.25 billion, of which $1.2 billion is in the form of a secured term loan from LVS and the remainder was paid in cash. We funded the Venetian 50 Acquisition with (i) $3.2 billion in net proceeds from the physical settlement of the March 2021 Forward Sale Agreements and the September 2021 Forward Sale Agreements, (ii) an initial draw on the Revolving Credit Facility of $600.0 million, and (iii) cash on hand. Simultaneous with the closing of the Venetian Acquisition, we entered into the Venetian Lease with the Venetian Tenant. The Venetian Lease has an initial total annual rent of $250.0 million and an initial term of 30 years, with two ten-year tenant renewal options. The annual rent is subject to escalation equal to the greater of 2.0% and the increase in the CPI, capped at 3.0%, beginning in the earlier of (i) the beginning of the third lease year, and (ii) the month following the month in which the net revenue generated by the Venetian Resort returns to its 2019 level (the year immediately prior to the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic) on a trailing twelve-month basis. In connection with the Venetian Acquisition, we entered into a Partner Property Growth Fund Agreement (“Venetian PGF”) with the Venetian Tenant. Under the Venetian PGF, we agreed to provide up to $1.0 billion for various development and construction projects affecting the Venetian Resort to be identified by the Venetian Tenant and that satisfy certain criteria more particularly set forth in the Venetian PGF, in consideration of additional incremental rent to be paid by the Venetian Tenant under the Venetian Lease and calculated in accordance with a formula set forth in the Venetian PGF. In addition, LVS agreed with the Venetian Tenant pursuant to an agreement (the “Contingent Lease Support Agreement”) entered into simultaneously with the closing of the Venetian Acquisition to provide lease payment support designed to guarantee the Venetian Tenant’s rent obligations under the Venetian Lease through 2023, subject to early termination if EBITDAR (as defined in such agreement) generated by the Venetian Resort in 2022 equals or exceeds $550.0 million, or a tenant change of control occurs. We were a third-party beneficiary of the Contingent Lease Support Agreement and had certain enforcement rights pursuant thereto. The EBITDAR generated by the operations of the Venetian Resort exceeded $550.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 and, accordingly, the Contingent Lease Support Agreement early terminated in accordance with its terms. Loan Origination Activity • Great Wolf Northeast Loan. On December 30, 2022, we entered into a loan with Great Wolf, under which we agreed to provide up to $287.9 million of senior secured financing (the “Great Wolf Northeast Loan”) the proceeds of which will be used to fund the development of a Great Wolf Lodge in Mashantucket, Connecticut, a 549-room indoor family resort water park project adjacent to the Foxwoods Resort Casino. The Great Wolf Northeast Loan has an initial term of three years with two 12-month extension options, subject to certain conditions and is expected to be funded by us with cash on hand in accordance with a construction draw schedule. • Fontainebleau Las Vegas Loan. On December 23, 2022, we entered into definitive agreements pursuant to which we have agreed to provide up to $350.0 million in mezzanine loan financing (the “Fontainebleau Las Vegas Loan”) to a partnership between Fontainebleau Development, LLC, a builder, owner, and operator of luxury hospitality, commercial and retail properties, and Koch Real Estate Investments, the real estate investment arm of Koch Industries, to complete the construction of Fontainebleau Las Vegas, a 67-story hotel, gaming, meeting, and entertainment destination coming to the north end of the Las Vegas Strip. The investment was, and will continue to be, funded by us in accordance with a construction draw schedule. Fontainebleau Las Vegas is expected to open in the fourth quarter of 2023. • Canyon Ranch Austin Loan. On October 7, 2022, we entered into a delayed draw term loan facility (the “Canyon Ranch Austin Loan”) with Canyon Ranch, a leading pioneer in global wellness, under which we agreed to provide up to $200.0 million of secured financing to fund the development of Canyon Ranch Austin in Austin, Texas. We also entered into a call right agreement pursuant to which we will have the right to acquire the real estate assets of Canyon Ranch Austin for up to 24 months following stabilization (with the loan balance being settled in connection with the exercise of such call right), which transaction will be structured as a sale leaseback (with the simultaneous entry into a triple-net lease with Canyon Ranch that will have an initial term of 25 years, with eight 5-year tenant renewal options). In addition, we entered into a purchase option agreement, pursuant to which (i) we have an option to acquire the real estate assets associated with the existing Canyon Ranch Tucson and Canyon Ranch Lenox properties, which transactions will be structured as a sale leaseback, in each case solely to the extent Canyon Ranch elects to sell either or both of such properties in a sale leaseback structure for a specific period of time, subject to certain conditions. In addition, we entered into a right of first offer agreement on future financing opportunities for Canyon Ranch and certain of its affiliates with respect to the funding of certain facilities (including Canyon Ranch Austin, Canyon Ranch Tucson and Canyon Ranch Lenox, and any other fee owned Canyon Ranch branded wellness resort), until the date that is the earlier of five years from commencement of the Canyon Ranch Austin lease (to the extent applicable) and the date that neither VICI nor any of its affiliates are landlord under such lease, subject to certain specified terms, conditions and exceptions. 51 • Great Wolf Gulf Coast Texas Loan. On August 30, 2022, we entered into a loan with Great Wolf under which we agreed to provide up to $127.0 million of mezzanine financing (the “Great Wolf Gulf Coast Texas Loan”), the proceeds of which will be used to fund the development of Great Wolf Lodge Gulf Coast Texas, a more than $200.0 million, 532-room indoor water park resort project in Webster, TX. The Great Wolf Gulf Coast Texas Loan has an initial term of three years with two 12-month extension options, subject to certain conditions and is funded by us with cash on hand in accordance with a construction draw schedule. • Great Wolf South Florida Loan. On July 1, 2022, we entered into a loan with Great Wolf under which we agreed to provide up to $59.0 million of mezzanine financing (the “Great Wolf South Florida Loan”), the proceeds of which will be used to fund the development of Great Wolf Lodge South Florida, a more than $250.0 million, 500-room indoor water park resort project in Collier County, FL. The Great Wolf South Florida Loan has an initial term of four years with one 12-month extension option subject to certain conditions and is funded with cash on hand in accordance with a construction draw schedule. • Cabot Citrus Farms Loan. On June 6, 2022, we entered into a $120.0 million delayed draw term loan (the “Cabot Citrus Farms Loan”) with Cabot, a developer, owner and operator of world-class destination golf resorts and communities, the proceeds of which will be used to fund Cabot’s property-wide transformation of Cabot Citrus Farms in Brooksville, Florida, with the addition of a new clubhouse, luxury lodging, health and wellness facilities and a vibrant village center. We also entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement, pursuant to which upon substantial completion of the asset we will convert a portion of the Cabot Citrus Farms Loan into the ownership of certain Cabot Citrus Farms real estate assets and simultaneously enter into a triple-net lease with Cabot that will have an initial term of 25 years, with five 5-year tenant renewal options. • BigShots Loan. On April 7, 2022, we entered into a loan with BigShots Golf (“BigShots Golf”), a subsidiary of ClubCorp Holdings, Inc. (“ClubCorp”), an Apollo fund portfolio company, under which we agreed to provide up to $80.0 million of mortgage financing for the construction of certain new BigShots Golf facilities throughout the United States. In addition, we entered into a right of first offer and a call right agreement, pursuant to which (i) we have a call right to acquire the real estate assets associated with any BigShots Golf facility financed by us, which transaction will be structured as a sale leaseback, and (ii) for so long as the BigShots Loan remains outstanding and we continue to hold a majority interest therein, subject to additional terms and conditions, we will have a right of first offer on any multi-site mortgage, mezzanine, preferred equity, or other similar financing that is treated as debt to be obtained by BigShots Golf (or any of its affiliates) in connection with the development of BigShots Golf facilities. Existing Portfolio Activity • Gold Strike Lease. Subsequent to year-end, on February 15, 2023, in connection with MGM’s sale of the operations of Gold Strike, we entered into the Gold Strike Lease with CNB related to the land and real estate assets of Gold Strike, and entered into an amendment to the MGM Master Lease in order to account for the divestiture of the operations of Golf Strike. The Gold Strike Lease has initial annual base rent of $40.0 million with other economic terms substantially similar to the MGM Master Lease, including a base term of 25 years with three 10-year tenant renewal options, escalation of 2.0% per annum (with escalation of the greater of 2.0% and CPI, capped at 3.0%, beginning in lease year 11) and minimum capital expenditure requirements of 1.0% of annual net revenue. The Gold Strike Lease is guaranteed by CNB. Upon the closing of the sale of Gold Strike, the MGM Master Lease was amended to account for MGM’s divestiture of the Gold Strike operations and resulted in a reduction of the annual base rent under the MGM Master Lease by $40.0 million. • Mirage Lease. On December 19, 2022, in connection with MGM’s sale of the operations of the Mirage Hotel & Casino (the “Mirage”) to Hard Rock, we entered into the Mirage Lease and entered into an amendment to the MGM Master Lease relating to the sale of the Mirage. The Mirage Lease has an initial annual base rent of $90.0 million with other economic terms substantially similar to the MGM Master Lease, including a base term of 25 years with three 10-year tenant renewal options, escalation of 2.0% per annum (with escalation of the greater of 2.0% and CPI, capped at 3.0%, beginning in lease year 11) and minimum capital expenditure requirements of 1.0% of annual net revenue. Upon the closing of the sale of the Mirage, the MGM Master Lease was amended to account for MGM’s divestiture of the Mirage operations and resulted in a reduction of the annual base rent under the MGM Master Lease by $90.0 million. Additionally, subject to certain conditions, we may fund up to $1.5 billion of Hard Rock’s redevelopment plan for the Mirage through our Partner Property Growth Fund if Hard Rock elects to seek third-party financing for such redevelopment. The specific terms of the potential funding remain subject to ongoing discussion in connection with Hard Rock’s broader planning of the potential redevelopment, as well as the negotiation of definitive documentation between us and Hard Rock, and there are no assurances that the redevelopment of the Hard Rock-Mirage will occur on the contemplated terms, including through our financing, or at all. 52 • Century Casinos Expansion. On December 1, 2022, we amended the Century Master Lease to provide approximately $51.9 million in capital through our Partner Property Growth Fund for the construction of a land-based casino with an adjacent 38-room hotel tower at Century Casino Caruthersville. Pursuant to the amendment to the Century Master Lease, we will own the real estate improvements associated with these projects and annual rent under the Century Master Lease will increase by approximately $4.2 million following completion of the projects. Other Portfolio Activity • Cabot Golf Course Management Agreement. On October 1, 2022, we entered into a management agreement with CDN Golf, an affiliate of Cabot, a developer, owner and operator of world-class destination golf resorts and communities, pursuant to which CDN Golf manages our four Golf Courses. Pursuant to the management agreement, CDN Golf has assumed all day-to-day operations of the Golf Courses and the employees at each of the Golf Courses are employees of CDN Golf. We continue to own the Golf Courses within our TRS, VICI Golf. The management agreement has a term of 20 years with two five-year renewal options upon mutual agreement of Cabot and us, subject to certain early termination rights. Financing and Capital Markets Activity • January 2023 Offering. Subsequent to year-end, on January 12, 2023, we completed a primary offering of 30,302,500 shares of common stock (inclusive of 3,952,500 shares sold pursuant to the exercise in full of the underwriters’ option to purchase additional common stock) at a public offering price of $33.00 per share for an aggregate offering value of $1,000.0 million, resulting in net proceeds, after deduction of the underwriting discount and expenses, of $964.4 million. The shares are subject to forward sale agreements (the “January 2023 Forward Sale Agreements”), which require settlement by January 16, 2024. We did not initially receive any proceeds from the sale of the shares of common stock in the offering, which were sold to the underwriters by the forward purchasers or their respective affiliates and remain subject to settlement in accordance with the terms of the January 2023 Forward Sale Agreements. • November Block Trade. On November 3, 2022, we completed an offering of 18,975,000 shares of common stock (inclusive of 2,475,000 shares sold pursuant to the exercise in full of the underwriters’ option to purchase additional common stock), which the underwriters agreed to purchase from us at a price of $30.57 per share for an aggregate offering value of $580.0 million, all of which are subject to forward sale agreements (the “November 2022 Forward Sale Agreements”) to be settled by November 6, 2023. We did not initially receive any proceeds from the sale of the shares of common stock in the offering, which were sold to the underwriters by the forward purchasers or their respective affiliates. Subsequent to year-end, on January 6, 2023, we physically settled the November 2022 Forward Sale Agreements in exchange for total net proceeds of approximately $575.6 million, which were used to pay for a portion of the purchase price of the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV Interest Acquisition. • At-The-Market Offering Programs. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we sold an aggregate of 21,617,592 shares under the ATM Program (as defined in ), all of which were subject to forward sale agreements, for estimated aggregate total proceeds of $715.9 million based on the initial forward sale price with respect to each forward sale agreement. We did not initially receive any proceeds from the sale of the shares of common stock under the ATM Program, which were sold to the underwriters by the forward purchasers or their respective affiliates. Subsequent to year-end, in January 2023, we physically settled all the forward shares issued under the ATM Program in exchange for total net proceeds of approximately $696.7 million, which were used to pay for a portion of the purchase price of the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV Interest Acquisition. • Issuance of Exchange Notes. In connection with the closing of the MGP Transactions on April 29, 2022, the VICI Issuers issued $4,110.0 million in aggregate principal amount of Exchange Notes in exchange for the validly tendered and not validly withdrawn MGP OP Notes pursuant to the settlement of the Exchange Offers and Consent Solicitations (each, as defined in ). The Exchange Notes were issued with the same interest rate, maturity date and redemption terms as the corresponding series of MGP OP Notes. Following the issuance of the Exchange Notes pursuant to the settlement of the Exchange Offers and Consent Solicitations, $90.0 million in aggregate principal amount of MGP OP Notes remained outstanding. See for additional information. • Issuance of April 2022 Notes. In connection with the closing of the MGP Transactions on April 29, 2022, VICI LP issued (i) $500.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.375% 2025 Notes, (ii) $1,250.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.750% 2028 Notes, (iii) $1,000.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.950% 2030 Notes, (iv) $1,500.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.125% 2032 Notes, and (v) $750.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.625% 2052 Notes, in each case under a supplemental indenture dated as of April 29, 2022, between VICI LP and the Trustee (as defined in ). We used the net proceeds of the offering to (i) fund the consideration for the redemption of a majority of the VICI OP Units received by MGM in the Partnership Merger for $4,404.0 million in cash in connection with the closing of the MGP Transactions on April 29, 2022, and (ii) pay down 53 the outstanding $600.0 million balance on our Revolving Credit Facility. The weighted average interest rate for the senior notes issued in the April 2022 Notes offering is 5.00%, and the adjusted weighted average interest rate, after taking into account the impact of the forward-starting interest rate swaps and treasury locks, is 4.51%. • Settlement of September 2021 Forward Sale Agreements and March 2021 Forward Sale Agreements. On February 18, 2022, we physically settled the September 2021 Forward Sale Agreements and the March 2021 Forward Sale Agreements (each as defined in ) in exchange for total net proceeds of approximately $3.2 billion, which were used to pay for a portion of the purchase price of the Venetian Acquisition. • Entry into New Unsecured Credit Agreement. On February 8, 2022, we entered into the Credit Facilities pursuant to the Credit Agreement, comprised of (i) the Revolving Credit Facility in the amount of $2.5 billion scheduled to mature on March 31, 2026 and (ii) the Delayed Draw Term Loan in the amount of $1.0 billion scheduled to mature on March 31, 2025. Concurrently, we terminated our Secured Revolving Credit Facility (including the first priority lien on substantially all of VICI PropCo’s and its existing and subsequently acquired wholly owned material domestic restricted subsidiaries’ material assets) and our 2017 Credit Agreement (as defined in ). The Delayed Draw Term Loan was available to be drawn up to 12 months following the effective date and on February 8, 2023, the Delayed Draw Term Loan facility expired undrawn in accordance with its terms. The Revolving Credit Facility includes the option to increase the revolving loan commitments by up to $1.0 billion in the aggregate to the extent that any one or more lenders (from the syndicate or otherwise) agree to provide such additional credit extensions. Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility will bear interest at VICI LP’s option at a rate based on SOFR (including a credit spread adjustment) plus a margin ranging from 0.775% to 1.325% or a base rate plus a margin ranging from 0.00% to 0.325%, in each case, with the actual margin determined according to VICI LP’s debt ratings. On July 15, 2022, the Credit Agreement was amended pursuant to a First Amendment among VICI LP and the lenders party to the Credit Agreement, in order to permit borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility in certain foreign currencies in an aggregate principal amount of up to the equivalent of $1.25 billion. • Entry into Forward-Starting Interest Rate Swap Agreements and U.S. Treasury Rate Locks. From December 2021 through April 2022, we entered into five forward-starting interest rate swap agreements with an aggregate notional amount of $2,500.0 million and two U.S. Treasury Rate Lock agreements with an aggregate notional amount of $500.0 million. The interest rate swap agreements and treasury locks were intended to reduce the variability in the forecasted interest expense related to the fixed-rate debt we expected to incur in connection with closing the MGP Transactions. In connection with the April 2022 Notes offering, we settled the outstanding forward-starting interest rate swaps and treasury locks for net proceeds of $206.8 million. Since the forward-starting swaps and treasury locks were hedging the interest rate risk on the April 2022 Notes, the unrealized gain in Accumulated other comprehensive income is being amortized over the term of the respective derivative instruments, which matches that of the underlying note, as a reduction in interest expense. KEY TRENDS THAT MAY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS Tenant and Industry Performance Our tenants and the guarantors of their respective obligations, as applicable, under the Lease Agreements are leading gaming operators across the United States and Canada. Rental payments under t he Lease Agreements comprise, and are expected to continue to comprise, a substantial majority of our revenues. Accordingly, we are dependent on, among other things, our tenants’ and, as applicable, their respective guarantors’, financial performance, the performance of the gaming industry and the health of the economies in the areas where our properties are located for the foreseeable future, and an event that has a material adverse effect on any of our tenant’s business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or prospects could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. In addition, the financial performance of our tenants and their respective guarantors also has a direct impact on our financial results in a given reporting period due to the impact of ASC 326 “Credit Losses” (“ASC 326”), which requires us to estimate and record non-cash expected credit losses related to our investments, including changes on a quarterly basis, that are recorded in our Statement of Operations and impact our reported net income. The change in non-cash allowance for credit losses for a given period is dependent upon, among other things, our tenants’ and guarantors’ financial performance. For more information regarding ASC 326, refer to included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 54 Business Strategy Our business prospects and future growth will be significantly influenced by the success of our business strategy, and the timing, availability and terms of financing of any acquisitions and investments that we may complete, as well as broader macroeconomic and other conditions that affect our tenants’ operating and financial performance, including those described herein.  Further, the pricing of any acquisitions or other investments we may consummate and the terms of any leases that we may enter into will significantly impact our future results. Competition to enter into transactions, including sale leaseback transactions, with attractive properties and desirable tenants is intense, and we can provide no assurance that any future acquisitions, investments or leases will be on terms as favorable to us as those relating to recent or historical transactions. Impact of the Macroeconomic Environment We anticipate that we would seek to finance our future growth with a combination of debt and equity, although no assurance can be given that we would be able to issue equity and/or debt in such amounts on favorable terms, or at all, or that we would not determine to incur more debt on a relative basis at the relevant time due to market conditions or otherwise. Recent macroeconomic volatility has introduced significant uncertainty and heightened risk for businesses, including us and our tenants, as a result of the current inflationary environment, including the impact of rising interest rates and increased cost of capital. Our tenants also face additional challenges, including potential changes in consumer confidence levels, behavior and spending and increased operational expenses, such as with respect to labor or energy costs. As a triple-net lessor, increased operational expenses at our leased properties are borne by our tenants and do not directly impact their rent obligations (other than with respect to underlying inflation as applied to the CPI-based escalators described below) or other obligations under our Lease Agreements. However, the current environment, including rising interest rates and market volatility, impacts our business in certain respects, such as by increasing interest expense with respect to any borrowings under our Credit Facility, increasing volatility of our share price with respect to sales of common stock, and, with respect to potential transactions, evaluating asset and property values in discussions with potential counterparties and obtaining transaction financing on attractive terms, all of which could increase our cost of capital and negatively impact our growth prospects. With respect to our Lease Agreements, which generally provide for annual rent escalation based on a specified percentage increase and/or increases in CPI, we expect that increasing inflation will result in additional rent increases over time under our CPI-based lease provisions (subject to any applicable caps or periods in which such provisions do not apply). However, these rent increases may not match increasing inflation during periods when inflation rates are greater than the applicable CPI-based caps. Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic Since the emergence of the COVID-19 pandemic in early 2020, among broader public health, societal and global impacts, the pandemic has negatively impacted the economy, including the real estate industry and certain experiential sectors, and contributed to volatility and uncertainty in financial markets. Although our tenants’ operations at our leased properties are generally no longer subject to significant operating restrictions, with performance in many cases at or above pre-pandemic levels, they may continue to face challenges in operating their businesses due to the ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, such as complying with any future operating restrictions, ensuring sufficient staffing and service levels, sustaining customer engagement and maintaining improved operating margins and financial performance. Overall Implications of Such Material Trends on Our Business As a triple-net lessor, we believe we are generally in a strong creditor position and structurally insulated from operational and performance impacts of our tenants, both positive and negative. However, the full extent to which the trends set forth herein adversely affect our tenants and/or ultimately impact us depends on future developments that cannot be predicted with confidence, including our tenants’ financial performance, the direct and indirect effects of such trends discussed herein (including among other things, rising interest rates, inflation, economic recessions, consumer confidence levels and general conditions in the capital and credit markets) and the impact of any future measures taken in response to such trends on our tenants. For more information, refer to “ ” included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 55 DISCUSSION OF OPERATING RESULTS Results of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021 56 Revenue For the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, our revenue was comprised of the following items: Leasing Revenue The following table details the components of our income from sales-type lease and lease financing receivables: ____________________ (1) Represents the MGM Master Lease, Harrah’s Call Properties (as defined in ), the JACK Master Lease and the Foundation Master Lease, all of which were sale leaseback transactions. In accordance with ASC 842, since the lease agreements were determined to meet the definition of a sales-type lease and control of the asset is not considered to have transferred to us, such lease agreements are accounted for as financings under ASC 310. (2) Amounts represent the non-cash adjustment to income from sales-type leases, direct financing leases and lease financing receivables in order to recognize income on an effective interest basis at a constant rate of return over the term of the leases. Leasing revenue is generated from rent from our Lease Agreements. Total leasing revenue increased $1,050.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. Total contractual leasing revenue increased $832.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The increases were primarily driven by the addition of the MGM Master Lease, Venetian Lease and Foundation Master Lease to our portfolio in 2022, as well as the annual rent escalators from certain of our other Lease Agreements. Income From Loans Income from loans increased $3.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was driven by the addition and/or subsequent funding, as applicable, of the Great Wolf Northeast Loan, Fontainebleau Las Vegas Loan, Canyon Ranch Austin Loan, Great Wolf Gulf Coast Texas Loan, Great Wolf South Florida Loan, Cabot Citrus Farms Loan and Great Wolf Maryland loan to our real estate investment portfolio, partially offset by the repayment of the $70.0 million term loan with JACK Entertainment in October 2021 . Other Income Other income increased $31.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was driven primarily by the additional income and offsetting expense as a result of the assumption of certain sub-leases in connection with the closing of the Venetian Acquisition and MGP Transactions. The Lease Agreements require the tenants to pay all costs associated with such ground and use sub-leases and provide for their direct payment to the landlord. Golf Revenues Revenues from golf operations increased $5.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The change was primarily driven by an increase in rounds played at the Golf Courses and an increase in the contractual fees paid to us by Caesars for the use of our Golf Courses, pursuant to a golf course use agreement. 57 Operating Expenses For the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, our operating expenses were comprised of the following items: General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses increased $15.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in compensation, including stock-based compensation and the addition of new employees to the corporate team and additional expenses related to the significant growth of our business in 2022. Other Expenses Other expenses increased $31.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was driven primarily by the additional income and offsetting expense as a result of the assumption of certain sub-leases in connection with the Venetian Acquisition and MGP Transactions. The Lease Agreements require the tenants to pay all costs associated with such ground and use sub-leases and provide for their direct payment to the landlord. Golf Expenses Expenses from golf operations increased $1.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The change was primarily driven by increased costs related to the number of rounds of golf played across our Golf Courses. In addition, $3.2 million and $3.1 million of depreciation expense was incurred primarily by the golf business during the year ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Change in Allowance for Credit Losses During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recognized an $834.5 million increase in our allowance for credit losses, or CECL allowance, primarily driven by initial CECL allowances on our acquisition activity during such period in the amount of $573.6 million , representing 68.7% of the total CECL allowance for the year ended December 31, 2022. The initial CECL allowances were in relation to (i) the closing of the MGP Transactions on April 29, 2022, which included the (a) classification of the MGM Master Lease as a lease financing receivable and (b) the sales-type sub-lease agreements that we assumed in connection with the closing of the MGP Transactions, (ii) the closing of the Venetian Acquisition on February 23, 2022, which included (a) the classification of the Venetian Lease as a sales-type lease, (b) the estimated future funding commitments under the Venetian PGF and (c) the sales-type sub-lease agreements that we assumed in connection with the closing of the Venetian Acquisition, and (iii) the future funding commitments from the origination of the BigShots Loan, the Cabot Citrus Farms Loan, the Great Wolf South Florida Loan, the Great Wolf Gulf Coast Texas Loan, the Canyon Ranch Austin Loan, the Great Wolf Northeast Loan and the Fontainebleau Las Vegas Loan. Additional increases were attributable to (i) changes in the macroeconomic model used to scenario condition our reasonable and supportable period, or R&S Period, probability of default, or PD, due to uncertain and potentially negative future market conditions, (ii) an increase in the R&S Period PD of our tenants and their parent guarantors (as applicable) as a result of market volatility during the quarter and (iii) an increase in the R&S Period PD and loss given default, or LGD, as a result of standard annual updates that were made to the inputs and assumptions in the model that we utilize to estimate our CECL allowance. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in the long-term reasonable and supportable period probability of default, or Long-Term Period PD, due to an upgrade of the credit rating of the senior secured debt used to determine the Long-Term Period PD for one of our tenants and as a result of standard annual updates that were made to the Long-Term Period PD default study that we utilize to estimate our CECL allowance. 58 During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recognized a $19.6 million decrease in our allowance for credit losses primarily driven by (i) the decrease in the R&S Period PD of our tenants or borrowers and their parent guarantors as a result of an improvement in their economic outlook due to the reopening of all of their gaming operations and relative performance of such operations during 2021, (ii) the decrease in the Long-Term Period PD due to an upgrade of the credit rating of the senior secured debt used to determine the Long-Term Period PD for one of our tenants during 2021 and (iii) the decrease in the R&S Period PD and loss given default as a result of standard annual updates that were made to the inputs and assumptions in the model that we utilize to estimate our CECL allowance. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in the existing amortized cost balances subject to the CECL allowance . Refer to for further details. Transaction and Acquisition Expenses Transaction and acquisition costs increased $12.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 driven primarily by increases in costs incurred for the MGP Transactions and Venetian Acquisition during the period that are not capitalized under GAAP. Such balances also includes costs incurred for investments that we are no longer pursuing, the amounts of  which fluctuate depending on volume and timing of such non-pursuit. Non-Operating Income and Expenses For the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, our non-operating income and expenses were comprised of the following items: Income from Unconsolidated Affiliate Income from unconsolidated affiliate during the year ended December 31, 2022 represents our 50.1% share of the income of the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV for the period of ownership, which interest was acquired as part of the MGP Transactions on April 29, 2022. The income from unconsolidated affiliate includes the amortization of certain basis differences arising from the differences between our purchase price and the underlying carrying value of the joint venture. As the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV interest was acquired by us on April 29, 2022, no such income was recognized for the year ended December 31, 2021. Subsequent to year-end, on January 9, 2023, we purchased BREIT’s 49.9% share of interest in the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV and, accordingly, we will consolidate the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV entity in future periods, upon which such income will be presented on a consolidated basis as part of our leasing income. Interest Expense Interest expense increased $147.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily related to the increase in debt from the (i) issuance of the April 2022 Notes, (ii) issuance of the Exchange Notes and (iii) assumption of the MGP OP Notes, the combination of which resulted in an additional $9.2 billion in notional amount of debt at a weighted average interest rate of 4.70%, net of the impact of the forward-starting interest rate swaps and treasury locks. Further increases were related to (i) the amortization of the commitment fees associated with the bridge facilities entered into in connection with the acquisition of the Venetian Resort and the MGP Transactions, (ii) the commitment fees on the Revolving Credit Facility and the Delayed Draw Term Loan, and (iii) additional interest on the $600.0 million draw on the Revolving Credit Facility in February 2022 (which was repaid in full on April 29, 2022). The increases were partially offset by the full repayment of the Term Loan B Facility in September 2021 and certain non-recurring activity during the year ended December 31, 2021, which included (i) the $64.2 million payment in connection with the early settlement of the outstanding interest rate swap agreements and (ii) the amortization of the commitment fees associated with the Venetian Acquisition Bridge Facility and the MGP Transactions Bridge Facility. Additionally, the weighted average annualized interest rate of our debt, net of the impact of the forward-starting interest rate swaps and treasury locks, increased to 4.39% during the year ended December 31, 2022 from 4.04% during the year ended December 31, 2021 as a result of a higher weighted average effective interest rate on the April 2022 Notes, Exchange Notes and MGP OP Notes as compared to our outstanding debt during such prior period. 59 Interest Income Interest income increased $9.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily driven by a significant increase in the interest rates and income earned on our excess cash and short-term investments, coupled with an overall increase in our cash on hand throughout the current year as compared to the prior year. Loss on Extinguishment of Debt During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of $15.6 million resulting from the write-off of the unamortized deferred financing fees in connection with the full repayment of our Term Loan B Facility in September 2021. No such loss was recognized during the year ended December 31, 2022. Results of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 For a comparison of our results of operations for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, see “ ” of our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, filed with the SEC on February 23, 2022 and incorporated by reference herein. RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP MEASURES We present VICI’s Funds From Operations (“FFO”), FFO per share, Adjusted Funds From Operations (“AFFO”), AFFO per share, and Adjusted EBITDA, which are not required by, or presented in accordance with, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”). These are non-GAAP financial measures and should not be construed as alternatives to net income or as an indicator of operating performance (as determined in accordance with GAAP). We believe FFO, FFO per share, AFFO, AFFO per share and Adjusted EBITDA provide a meaningful perspective of the underlying operating performance of VICI’s business. FFO is a non-GAAP financial measure that is considered a supplemental measure for the real estate industry and a supplement to GAAP measures. Consistent with the definition used by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT), we define FFO as VICI’s net income (or loss) attributable to common stockholders (computed in accordance with GAAP) excluding (i) gains (or losses) from sales of certain real estate assets, (ii) depreciation and amortization related to real estate, (iii) gains and losses from change in control, (iv) impairment write-downs of certain real estate assets and investments in entities when the impairment is directly attributable to decreases in the value of depreciable real estate held by the entity and (v) VICI’s proportionate share of such adjustments from its investment in unconsolidated affiliate. AFFO is a non-GAAP financial measure that we use as a supplemental operating measure to evaluate VICI’s performance. We calculate VICI’s AFFO by adding or subtracting from FFO non-cash leasing and financing adjustments, non-cash change in allowance for credit losses, non-cash stock-based compensation expense, transaction costs incurred in connection with the acquisition of real estate investments, amortization of debt issuance costs and original issue discount, other non-cash interest expense, non-real estate depreciation (which is comprised of the depreciation related to our golf course operations), capital expenditures (which are comprised of additions to property, plant and equipment related to our golf course operations), impairment charges related to non-depreciable real estate, gains (or losses) on debt extinguishment and interest rate swap settlements, other non-recurring non-cash transactions, our proportionate share of non-cash adjustments from our investment in unconsolidated affiliate (including the amortization of any basis differences) with respect to certain of the foregoing and non-cash adjustments attributable to non-controlling interest with respect to certain of the foregoing. We calculate VICI’s Adjusted EBITDA by adding or subtracting from AFFO contractual interest expense (including the impact of the forward-starting interest rate swaps and treasury locks) and interest income (collectively, interest expense, net), income tax expense and our proportionate share of such adjustments from VICI’s investment in unconsolidated affiliate. These non-GAAP financial measures: (i) do not represent VICI’s cash flow from operations as defined by GAAP; (ii) should not be considered as an alternative to VICI’s net income as a measure of operating performance or to cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities; and (iii) are not alternatives to VICI’s cash flow as a measure of liquidity. In addition, these measures should not be viewed as measures of liquidity, nor do they measure our ability to fund all of our cash needs, including our ability to make cash distributions to our stockholders, to fund capital improvements, or to make interest payments on our indebtedness. Investors are also cautioned that FFO, FFO per share, AFFO, AFFO per share and Adjusted EBITDA, as presented, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other real estate companies, including REITs, due to the fact that not all real estate companies use the same definitions. Our presentation of these measures does not replace the presentation of VICI’s financial results in accordance with GAAP. 60 Reconciliation of VICI’s Net Income to FFO, FFO per Share, AFFO, AFFO per Share and Adjusted EBITDA ____________________ (1) Includes swap breakage costs of approximately $64.2 million incurred by VICI PropCo on September 15, 2021 in connection with the early settlement of the outstanding interest rate swap agreements. 61 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity As of December 31, 2022, our available cash and cash equivalents balance, short-term investments and capacity under our Revolving Credit Facility were as follows: ____________________ (1) In addition, the Revolving Credit Facility includes the option to increase the revolving loan commitments by up to $1.0 billion to the extent that any one or more lenders (from the syndicate or otherwise) agree to provide such additional credit extensions. (2) Subsequent to year-end, on January 3, 2023, we drew on the Revolving Credit Facility in the amount of C$140.0 million (approximately US$103.4 million based on the exchange rate at the time of the acquisition) to fund a portion of the purchase price of the PURE Canadian Gaming Acquisition. (3) Subsequent to year-end, in January 2023 we physically settled the November 2022 Forward Sale Agreements and the then outstanding shares under the ATM Forward Sale Agreements in exchange for total net proceeds of approximately $1,272.2 million, which were used to pay for a portion of the purchase price of the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV Interest Acquisition. (4) Subsequent to year-end, on January 12, 2023, we completed a primary offering of 30,302,500 shares of common stock (inclusive of 3,952,500 shares sold pursuant to the exercise in full of the underwriters’ option to purchase additional common stock) at a public offering price of $33.00 per share for an aggregate offering value of $1,000.0 million, Such amount is not included in the table above and we did not initially receive any proceeds from the sale of the shares of common stock in the offering, which were sold to the underwriters by the forward purchasers or their respective affiliates and remain subject to settlement in accordance with the terms of the January 2023 Forward Sale Agreements. (5) Amounts exclude the capacity under the Delayed Draw Term Loan as the ability to use the commitments expired on February 8, 2023, and no amounts were drawn upon prior to expiration. We believe that we have sufficient liquidity to meet our material cash requirements, including our contractual obligations and commitments as well as our additional funding requirements, primarily through currently available cash and cash equivalents, cash received under our Lease Agreements, existing borrowings from banks, including our undrawn capacity under our Revolving Credit Facility, and proceeds from future issuances of debt and equity securities (including issuances under any future “at-the-market” program) for the next 12 months and in future periods. All of the Lease Agreements call for an initial term of between fifteen and thirty years with additional tenant renewal options and are designed to provide us with a reliable and predictable long-term revenue stream. Our cash flows from operations and our ability to access capital resources could be adversely affected due to uncertain economic factors and volatility in the financial and credit markets, including as a result of the current inflationary environment, sustained rising interest rates, equity market volatility, changes in consumer behavior and spending and the COVID-19 pandemic. In particular, we can provide no assurances that our tenants will not default on their leases or fail to make full rental payments if their businesses become challenged due to, among other things, current or future adverse economic conditions. See “Overview — Impact of Material Trends on our Business” above for additional detail.  In the event our tenants are unable to make all of their contractual rent payments as provided by the Lease Agreements, we believe we have sufficient liquidity from the other sources discussed above to meet all of our contractual obligations for a significant period of time. Additionally, we do not have any debt maturities until May 2024. For more information, refer to the risk factors incorporated by reference into . Our ability to raise funds through the issuance of debt and equity securities and access to other third-party sources of capital in the future will be dependent on, among other things, general economic conditions, general market conditions for REITs and investment grade issuers, market perceptions, the trading price of our stock and uncertainties related to the macroeconomic environment. We will continue to analyze which sources of capital are most advantageous to us at any particular point in time, but financing available through the capital markets may not be consistently available on terms we deem attractive, or at all. 62 Material Cash Requirements Contractual Obligations Our short-term obligations consist primarily of regular interest payments on our debt obligations, dividends to our common stockholders, distributions to the VICI OP Unit holders, normal recurring operating expenses, recurring expenditures for corporate and administrative needs, certain lease and other contractual commitments related to our golf operations and certain non-recurring expenditures. For more information on our material contractual commitments, refer to . Our long-term obligations consist primarily of principal payments on our outstanding debt obligations and future funding commitments under our lease and loan agreements. As of December 31, 2022, we had $15.5 billion of debt obligations outstanding (inclusive of $1.5 billion of secured debt representing our 50.1% pro-rata interest of the $3.0 billion property-level debt secured by the MGM Grand Las Vegas and Mandalay Bay held in the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV), none of which are maturing in the next twelve months. For a summary of principal debt balances and their maturity dates and principal terms, refer to . For a summary of our future funding commitments under our loan portfolio, refer to . Pursuant to our Lease Agreements, capital expenditures, insurance and taxes for our properties are the responsibility of the tenants. Minimum capital expenditure spending requirements of the tenants pursuant to the Lease Agreements are described in . Information concerning our material contractual obligations and commitments to make future payments under contracts such as our indebtedness, future funding commitments under our loans and Partner Property Growth Fund and future contractual operating commitments (such as future lease payments under our corporate lease) are included in the following table as of December 31, 2022, including material subsequent events. Amounts in this table omit, among other things, non-contractual commitments and items such as dividends and recurring or non-recurring operating expenses and other expenditures, including acquisitions and other investments: ________________________________________ (1) As of December 31, 2022, our 50.1% pro-rata share of the $3.0 billion MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay CMBS JV debt was part of the balance of our Investment in unconsolidated affiliate on our Balance Sheets. Subsequent to year-end, on January 9, 2023, upon closing of the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV Acquisition and consolidating the operations in the first quarter of 2023 the balance of the $3.0 billion debt, net of the fair value adjustment, will be presented in Debt, net on our Balance Sheets. The property-level debt has a principal balance of $3.0 billion, bears interest at a fixed rate of 3.558% per annum through March 2030, and matures in 2032. (2) Subsequent to year-end, on January 3, 2023, we drew on the Revolving Credit Facility in the amount of C$140.0 million (approximately US$103.4 million based on the exchange rate at the time of the acquisition) to fund a portion of the purchase price of the PURE Canadian Gaming Transaction. (3) The allocation of our future funding commitments is based on a construction draw schedule, commitment funding date, expiration date or other information, as applicable; however, we may be obligated to fund these commitments earlier than such applicable date. 63 Additional Funding Requirements In addition to the contractual obligations and commitments set forth in the table above, we have and may enter into additional agreements that commit us to potentially acquire properties in the future, fund future property improvements or otherwise provide capital to our tenants, borrowers and other counterparties, including through our put-call agreements and Partner Property Growth Fund. As of December 31, 2022, we had $1.0 billion of potential future funding commitments under our Partner Property Growth Fund agreements, the use of which are at the sole discretion of our tenants and will be dependent upon independent decisions made by our tenants with respect to any capital improvement projects and the source of funds for such projects, as well as the total funding ultimately provided under such arrangements. Cash Flow Analysis The table below summarizes our cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021: Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities increased $1,047.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared with the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase is primarily driven by an increase in cash rental payments from the addition of the MGM Master Lease, Venetian Lease and Foundation Master Lease to our real estate portfolio, the annual rent escalators on our Caesars Lease and certain of our other Lease Agreements, the proceeds from settlement of our forward-starting derivative instruments in connection with the April 2022 Notes offering and an increase in loan income as a result of an increase in the principal balance of our loan portfolio. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities increased $9,345.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared with the year ended December 31, 2021. During the year ended December 31, 2022, the primary sources and uses of cash from investing activities included: • Net payments of $4,574.5 million in relation to the closing of the MGP Transactions, including $4,404.0 million in connection with the redemption of the majority of the MGP OP units held by MGM, $90.0 million in connection with the repayment of the outstanding MGP revolving credit facility and acquisition costs; • Payments for the Venetian Acquisition and the funding of the Partner Property Growth Fund investment for Century Casino Caruthersville for a total cost of $4,017.9 million, including acquisition costs; • Payments for the Foundation Gaming Transaction for a total cost of $296.7 million, including acquisition costs; • Investment in short-term investments, net of maturities, of $217.3 million; • Disbursements to fund portions of the Fontainebleau Las Vegas Loan, Canyon Ranch Austin Loan, Great Wolf Gulf Coast Texas Loan, Great Wolf South Florida Loan, Cabot Citrus Farms Loan, BigShots Loan and Great Wolf Maryland loan, in the aggregate amount of $193.7 million; and • Capitalized transaction costs of $7.7 million . During the year ended December 31, 2021, the primary sources and uses of cash from investing activities included: • Proceeds from the repayment of a certain loan with JACK Entertainment and receipt of deferred fees of $70.4 million; • Payments to fund a portion of the Great Wolf Maryland loan totaling $33.6 million; • Proceeds from net maturities of short-term investments of $20.0 million; 64 • Proceeds from the sale of Louisiana Downs and certain parcels of vacant land in the aggregate amount of $13.3 million; • Final disbursement for the funding of a new gaming patio amenity at JACK Thistledown Racino o f $6.0 million ; and • Capitalized transaction costs of $20.7 million. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities increased $7,344.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared with the year ended December 31, 2021. During the year ended December 31, 2022, the primary sources and uses of cash from financing activities included: • Gross proceeds of $5,000.0 million from the April 2002 Notes offering; • Net proceeds of $3,219.1 million from the sale of an aggregate 119,000,000 shares of our common stock pursuant to the full physical settlement of the September 2021 Forward Sale Agreements and March 2021 Forward Sale Agreements; • Dividend payments of $1,219.1 million; • Initial draw and repayment of $600.0 million on our Revolving Credit Facility; • Debt issuance costs of $146.2 million; • Distributions of $17.7 million to non-controlling interests; and • Repurchase of shares of common stock for tax withholding in connection with the vesting of employee stock compensation of $6.2 million. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the primary sources and uses of cash from financing activities included: • Net proceeds from the sale of an aggregate of $2,385.8 million of our common stock from our September 2021 equity offering and pursuant to the full physical settlement of the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement; • Full repayment of the $2,100.0 million outstanding aggregate principal amount of our Term Loan B Facility; • Dividend payments of $758.8 million; • Debt issuance costs of $31.1 million; and • Distributions of $8.3 million to non-controlling interest. Debt For a summary of our debt obligations as of December 31, 2022, refer to . For a summary of our financing activities in 2022 refer to “Summary of Significant 2022 Activity - Financing and Capital Markets Activity” above . Covenants Our debt obligations are subject to certain customary financial and operating covenants that restrict our ability to incur additional debt, sell certain asset and restrict certain payments, among other things. In addition, these covenants are subject to a number of important exceptions and qualifications, including, with respect to the restricted payments covenant, the ability to make unlimited restricted payments to maintain our REIT status. At December 31, 2022, we were in compliance with all required debt-related covenants, including financial covenants. 65 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Our Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP which requires us to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. We believe that the following discussion addresses our most critical accounting estimates, which are those that have a significant level of estimation uncertainty, requiring our most difficult, subjective and complex judgments, and significantly impacts the Balance Sheet and Statement of Operations in the reporting period. Actual results may differ from the estimates. Refer to for a full discussion of our accounting policies. Purchase Accounting Our property acquisitions are accounted for under ASC 805 - Business Combinations (“ASC 805”), which requires that we allocate the purchase price of our properties to the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as applicable. Our acquired properties generally meet the definition of an asset acquisition under ASC 805-50 and we typically allocate the cost of real estate acquired, inclusive of capitalizable transaction costs, to (i) land, (ii) building and improvements and (iii) site improvements, based in each case on their relative estimated fair values using industry standard practices such as market comparables and the cost approach. In an acquisition of multiple properties, we must also allocate the purchase price among the properties, and in certain cases investments in unconsolidated affiliates, which is based on the (a) asset quality and location, (b) property and lease-level operating performance and (c) supply and demand dynamics of each property’s respective market. In addition, any assumed mortgages are recorded at their estimated fair values. Such allocations use significant estimates which can impact the determination of the accounting as a business combination or asset acquisition and the allocation to the differing components of an acquisition. Management uses industry standard practices to estimate the value assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in an acquisition, including the value assigned to each property, the liabilities assumed, as applicable, and the land and building property components within each property. Although management believes its estimate of both the value assigned to each property and to the land and building property components within each property is reasonable, no assurance can be given that such amounts will be correct. In particular, a change in the estimates could have a material impact on the business combination determination and the timing and amount of income recognized over the life of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Lease Accounting We account for our investments in leases under ASC 842 “Leases” (“ASC 842”), which requires significant estimates and judgments by management in its application. Upon lease inception or lease modification, we assess the lease classification of both the land and building components of the property to determine whether each component should be classified as a direct financing, sales-type or operating lease. The determination of lease classification requires the calculation of the rate implicit in the lease, which is driven by significant estimates, including the estimation of both the value assigned to the land and building property components upon acquisition (as further described in “—Purchase Accounting” above) and the estimation of the unguaranteed residual value of such components at the end of the non-cancelable lease term. If the lease component is determined to be a direct financing or sales-type lease, revenue is recognized over the life of the lease using the rate implicit in the lease. Management uses industry standard practices to estimate both the value assigned to the land and building property components upon acquisition and the unguaranteed residual value of such components, including comparable sales and replacement cost analyses. Although management believes its estimate of both the value assigned to the land and building property components upon acquisition and the unguaranteed residual value of such components is reasonable, no assurance can be given that such amounts will be correct. In particular a change in the estimates could have a material impact on the lease classification determination and the timing and amount of income recognized over the life of the lease. Allowance for Credit Losses ASC 326 requires that we measure and record current expected credit losses (“CECL”) for the majority of our investments, the scope of which includes our Investments in leases - sales-type, Investments in leases - financing receivables and Investments in loans. We have elected to use a discounted cash flow model to estimate the Allowance for credit losses, or CECL allowance. This model requires us to develop cash flows which project estimated credit losses over the life of the lease or loan and discount these cash flows at the asset’s effective interest rate. We then record a CECL allowance equal to the difference between the amortized cost basis of the asset and the present value of the expected credit loss cash flows. Expected losses within our cash flows are determined by estimating the probability of default (“PD”) and loss given default (“LGD”) of our tenants and their parent guarantors over the life of each individual lease or financial asset. The PD and LGD are estimated during a reasonable and supportable period for which we believe we are able to estimate future economic conditions 66 (the “R&S Period”) and a long-term period for which we revert to long-term historical averages (the “Long-Term Period”). We are unable to use our historical data to estimate losses as we have no loss history to date. Given the length of our leases, the Long-Term Period PD and LGD are the most material and significant drivers of the CECL allowance. The PD and LGD for the Long-Term Period are estimated using the average historical default rates and historical loss rates, respectively, of public companies over the past 40 years that have similar credit profiles or characteristics to our tenants and their parent guarantors. We have engaged a nationally recognized data analytics firm to assist us with estimating both the PD and LGD of our tenants and their parent guarantors. Changes to the Long-Term Period PD and LGD are generally driven by (i) updated studies from the nationally recognized data analytics firm we employ to assist us with calculating the allowance and (ii) changes in the credit rating assigned to our tenants and their parent guarantors. The following table illustrates the impact on the CECL allowance of our investment portfolio as a result of a 10% increase and decrease in the weighted average percentages used to estimate Long-Term PD and LGD of all of our tenants and their parent guarantors: Although management believes its estimate of the Long-Term PD and LGD described above is reasonable, no assurance can be given that the Long-Term PD and LGD for our tenants, or other drivers of the CECL allowance, will be correct. Any significant variation of Long-Term PD or LGD from management’s expectations could have a material impact on our financial condition and operating results.