********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Please carefully consider the following discussion of significant factors, events and uncertainties that make an investment in our securities risky. In addition to other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business. When the factors, events and contingencies described below or elsewhere in this Form 10-K materialize, our business, operating results, financial condition, reputation, cash flows or prospects can be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, reputation, cash flows and prospects. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K as a result of the risk factors discussed below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other filings we make with the SEC. Additional or unforeseen effects from the COVID-19 pandemic and the global economic climate may give rise to or amplify many of the risks discussed below. Cybersecurity and Technology Risk Factors Attempted security breaches, including from the exploitation of vulnerabilities, cyber-attacks and Distributed Denial of Service (“DDoS”) attacks against our systems and services increase our costs, expose us to potentially material liability, and could materially harm our business and reputation. As an operator of critical internet infrastructure, we experience a high rate of cyber-attacks and attempted security breaches targeting our systems and services, including the most sophisticated forms of attacks, such as advanced persistent threat attacks and zero-hour threats. The forms of these attacks are constantly evolving and may involve methods, tools and strategies that have not been previously identified or observed until the moment of launch, or until sometime after, making these attacks virtually impossible to anticipate and difficult to defend against. In addition to external threats, our systems and services are subject to insider threat risks, including physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, and from suppliers, such as consultants and advisors, SaaS providers, hardware, software, and network systems manufacturers, regional internet registries, and other vendors, or from current or former contractors or employees. These threats and any resulting security breach can arise from intentional or unintentional actions. Our continued exposure to these threats and the potential that they could lead to material liability claims against us requires us to expend significant financial and other resources. Our failure to identify, remediate and mitigate security threats, including insider threats, could result in material harm to our business, including loss of or delay in revenues, failure to meet contracted service-level obligations, material liability claims, failure to maintain market acceptance, injury to our reputation, and increased costs, and could call into question our ability to preserve the security and stability of the internet. Security vulnerabilities in our systems and our vendors’ systems, including vulnerabilities in third party software and hardware, pose a material risk to our operations. We use externally-developed technology, systems and services, including both hardware and software, for a variety of purposes, including compute, storage, encryption and authentication, back-office support, and other functions. We have developed policies and procedures to reduce the impact of security vulnerabilities in system components, as well as at any vendors where our data is stored or processed. However, such measures cannot provide absolute security. While we strive to remediate known vulnerabilities on a timely basis, such vulnerabilities could be exploited before our remediation is effective and if so, could cause systems and service interruptions, data loss and other damages. Our failure to identify, remediate and mitigate security vulnerabilities, including any potential failure to timely replace and upgrade network equipment, servers, or other technology assets, could result in material harm to our business, including loss of or delay in revenues, failure to meet contracted service-level obligations, material liability claims, failure to maintain market acceptance, injury to our reputation, increased costs, and call into question our ability to preserve the security and stability of the internet. In addition, our networks have been, and likely will continue to be, subject to DDoS attacks. Recent industry experience has demonstrated that DDoS attacks continue to grow in size and sophistication and have the ability to widely disrupt internet services. In recent years, the size of DDoS attacks has grown rapidly. We have successfully mitigated DDoS attacks during this time frame that are significantly larger than those we have historically experienced. While we have adopted mitigation techniques, procedures and strategies to defend against DDoS attacks, there can be no assurance that we will be able to defend against every attack, especially as the attacks increase in size and sophistication. Any attack, even if only partially successful, could disrupt our networks, increase response time, negatively impact our ability to meet our service level obligations, and generally impede our ability to provide reliable service to our customers and the broader internet community. We have historically incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs to enable our infrastructure to process levels of attack traffic that are significant multiples of our normal transaction volume. We are employing new technologies and new and different services and capabilities to help mitigate DDoS attacks. If these new technologies, services and capabilities are not effective, our networks could be disrupted, our response times could increase, our ability to meet our contracted service level obligations could be negatively impacted, and our ability to provide reliable service to our customers and the broader internet community could be impeded. 10 We may introduce undetected or unknown defects into our systems or services, which could materially harm our business and harm our vendors or our customers. Despite testing, services as complex as those we offer or develop could contain undetected defects or errors, which could result in service outages or disruptions, compromised customer data, including DNS data, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, tort or contract claims, increased insurance costs or increased service costs. Performance of our services, whether or not defective, could have unforeseen or unknown adverse effects on the networks over which they are delivered, on internet users and consumers, and on third-party applications and services that use our services, any of which could result in legal claims against us. While we strive to prevent, detect and remediate defects or errors, they can and do occur and they could result in our inability to meet customer expectations in a timely manner, failure to meet our contracted service level obligations, injury to our reputation, and increased costs. Our infrastructure and services are subject to vulnerabilities in the global routing system for the internet, as well as risks arising from internet services providers’ increasing adoption of the Resource Public Key Infrastructure system. Routing on the internet depends on the Border Gateway Protocol (“BGP”), which is a protocol that relies on networks within the internet infrastructure acting in a trustworthy manner when sharing information about destinations for connectivity and the routing of internet traffic. As a trust-based protocol, BGP has a number of vulnerabilities that may lead to outages or disrupt our services, including as a result of “route hijacks” that involve accidental or malicious rerouting of internet traffic, or “route leaks” that involve the malicious or unintentional propagation of routing information beyond the intended scope of the originator, receiver, and/or one of the networks along the route’s path. Both route hijacks and route leaks can result in partial or full rerouting of internet traffic for the impacted destinations. These events, which are beyond our control, could enable an array of attack conditions or service disruptions, and could result in adverse publicity and adversely affect the public’s perception of the security of e-commerce and communications over the internet, as well as of the security or reliability of our services. To address internet routing system vulnerabilities, many internet service providers are beginning to adopt and apply internet reachability policies based on a system known as the Resource Public Key Infrastructure (“RPKI”) operated by the regional internet registries (“RIRs”). The RIRs allocate internet number resources, such as internet protocol addresses, to enterprises and network operators. We have limited visibility into the maturity of and investment in the RIRs’ operational and security controls, which are outside of our control. When the availability, integrity, or confidentiality of any of the information in the RPKI system, or systems used to maintain and administer RPKI data and systems, are impacted or otherwise compromised in any of the RIRs, or any network operator that is a relying party of the RPKI system, or the operations or ingestion of data from the RPKI system are otherwise impacted by a known or unknown vulnerability, our services may be negatively impacted. Such impacts may include degraded or full loss of reachability of service addresses in the global internet routing system, resulting in degradation or complete loss of availability of our services. A compromise of the RPKI system and related services, or unintentional or unauthorized manipulation of data therein, may also result in other denial of service attack conditions for our infrastructure and services. The systemic dependencies introduced by RPKI and relying parties of the RPKI system, including network service providers, are outside of our control and are only as secure as the weakest elements of the RPKI system. We may contract with one or more RIRs to employ RPKI, which carries material operational risks, as described above, as well as material contractual risks, which may expose us to service disruptions and material liability. We could encounter system interruptions or systems failures resulting from activities beyond our direct control that could materially harm our business. We depend on the uninterrupted operation of our various systems, secure data centers and other computer and communication networks. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from power loss, transmission cable cuts and other telecommunications failures, damage or interruption caused by fire, earthquake, and other natural disasters, intentional acts of vandalism, terrorist attacks, unintentional mistakes or errors. Our systems and operations also face risks inherent in, or arising from, the terms and conditions of our agreements with service providers to operate our networks and data centers. We are also subject to state suppression of internet operations. Any of these problems or outages could create potential liability and exposure, including from a failure to meet our contracted service level obligations, and could decrease customer satisfaction, harming our business, or resulting in adverse publicity and damage to our reputation or call into question our ability to preserve the security and stability of the internet. Our data centers, including the Shared Registration Systems located at our data centers, and our resolution systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption, which could impede our ability to provide our services, expose us to liability, and harm our reputation. Most of the computing infrastructure for our Shared Registration System is located at, and most of our customer information is stored in, our owned data centers. In 2019, we began expanding some of our data center services to a leased data center facility. These data centers are vulnerable to damage or interruption, including from fires, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, power loss, hardware or system failures, physical or electronic break-ins, human error or interference. We are also updating our network architecture in several of our new and existing data centers. If our data center facilities or the updated 11 network architecture do not operate as expected, including the ability to quickly switch over between sites, we could experience service interruptions or outages. A failure in the operation of our Shared Registration System could result in the inability of one or more registrars to register or manage domain names for a period of time. If such a registrar has not implemented robust services in a manner that preserves transactions until processed by the registry, then the failure in the operation of our Shared Registration System could result in permanent loss of transactions at the registrar during that period. A failure in the operation of our Shared Registration System could also impact our ability to provide up-to-date information in our resolution systems, which could result in breaches of our service level obligations pertaining to our resolution services as well as impacting the resolution of domain names on the internet. Although we carry insurance, we do not carry insurance or designated financial reserves for such interruptions. In addition, our services depend on the secure and efficient operation of the internet connections to and from customers to our Shared Registration System residing in our secure data centers. These connections depend upon the secure and efficient operation of internet service providers, internet exchange point operators, and internet backbone service providers. Such providers have had periodic operational problems or experienced outages in the past beyond our scope of control and may continue to encounter problems and outages or may choose to discontinue their service. If the providers that our connections depend upon do not protect, maintain, improve, and reinvest in their networks or present inconsistent data regarding the DNS through their networks, our business could be harmed. A failure in the operation or update of the root zone servers, the root zone file, the Root Zone Management System, the TLD name servers, or the TLD zone files that we operate, including, for example, the . gov registry, or other network functions, could result in (1) a DNS resolution or other service outage or degradation, (2) the deletion of one or more TLDs from the internet for a period of time, (3) the deletion of one or more second-level domain names from the internet for a period of time, or (4) a misdirection of a domain name to a different server. A failure in the operation or update of the supporting cryptographic and other operational infrastructure that we maintain could result in similar consequences. Any of these problems or outages could create potential material liability and exposure from litigation and investigations, could result in a failure to meet our service level agreements, and could decrease customer satisfaction, harming our business. These problems could also result in adverse publicity, decrease the public’s trust in the security of e-commerce, or call into question our ability to preserve the security and stability of the internet. We retain certain customer and employee information in our data centers and various domain name registration systems. Any physical or electronic break-in or other security breach or compromise of the information stored at our data centers or domain name registration systems may jeopardize the security of information we retain or that is retained in the computer systems and networks of our customers. In such an event, we could face material liability and exposure from litigation and investigations, fail to meet contracted service level obligations, or be at risk for loss of various security and standards-based compliance certifications needed for operation of our businesses, and customers could be reluctant to use our services, any of which could also adversely affect our reputation and harm our business or cause financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance. We face risks from the operation of the root server system and our performance of the Root Zone Maintainer functions under the RZMA. Although the overall root server system is redundant and dispersed, a failure or interruption in the operation of the root server system could impact the effectiveness of our . com and . net authoritative servers and therefore negatively impact directory services necessary for the operation of the internet. We also have an important operational role in support of a key Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (“IANA”) function as the Root Zone Maintainer. In this role, we provision and publish the authoritative root zone data and make it available to all root server operators under the RZMA with ICANN. If we make errors in the publication of the root zone, we may be subject to material claims challenging the RZMA or our performance under it, including tort claims, and we may not have immunity from, or sufficient indemnification or insurance for, such claims. Contractual, Regulatory, Legal and Compliance Risk Factors Any loss or modification of our right to operate the . com and . net gTLDs could have a material adverse impact on our business and result in loss of revenues. Substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operation of the . com gTLD under our Cooperative Agreement with the DOC and our . com Registry Agreement as well as our operation of the . net gTLD under our .net Registry Agreement. Any loss or modification of our right to operate the . com and . net gTLDs could materially and adversely impact our ability to conduct our business and result in loss of revenues. Our . com and . net Registry Agreements contain “presumptive” rights of renewal upon the expiration of their current terms on November 30, 2024 and June 30, 2023, respectively. ICANN could refuse to renew upon expiration or terminate our . com Registry Agreement or our . net Registry Agreement if, upon proper notice, (1) we fail to cure a fundamental and material breach of certain specified obligations, and (2) we fail to timely comply with a final decision of an arbitrator or court. Additionally, each of the .com and .net Registry Agreements provide that if certain terms of these agreements are not similar to such terms generally in effect in the registry agreements of the five largest gTLDs, then a 12 renewal of these agreements would be upon terms reasonably necessary to render such terms to be similar to the registry agreements for those other gTLDs. Any such terms, if they apply, could be unfavorable to us and have a material adverse impact on our business. Standard renewals of the . com Registry Agreement do not require further DOC approval, although the prior written approval of the DOC is required for the removal of, or any changes to the pricing section (other than as approved in Amendment 35 to the Cooperative Agreement) and for changes to certain other specified terms whether such removal or changes is made at a renewal or otherwise. We can provide no assurances that DOC approval would be provided upon our request for any of these changes. In addition, under Amendment 35 to the Cooperative Agreement, we have agreed to continue to operate the . com gTLD in a content-neutral manner and to work within ICANN processes to promote the development of content-neutral policies for the operation of the DNS, and under our binding letter of intent with ICANN, we have agreed to work with the ICANN community to develop certain best practices and other commitments for the security, stability and resiliency of the DNS and the internet. Such policies and processes could expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability and result in costly and time-consuming investigations or litigation. Changes or challenges to the pricing provisions in the .com Registry Agreement could have a material adverse impact on our business. Under the terms of the .com Registry Agreement, we may increase the annual fee of each .com domain name registration or renewal by up to 7% over the previous year in each of the final four years of each six-year period. We can provide no assurance that we will exercise such right to increase the annual fee. In addition to this contractual right, we are entitled to increase the annual fee of each .com domain name registration or renewal by up to 7% due to the imposition of any new specifications or policies adopted by ICANN pursuant to the procedures set forth in its bylaws and due process (“Consensus Policies”) or documented extraordinary expense resulting from an attack or threat of attack on the security and stability of the DNS (an “Extraordinary Expense”). In addition, our ability to increase the price for .com domain name registrations and renewals due to a Consensus Policy or Extraordinary Expense may occur only in years in which we do not increase the price for .com domain name registrations and renewals as described above. It is uncertain whether circumstances would arise that would permit us to take a price increase due to a Consensus Policy or Extraordinary Expense, or if they do, whether we would seek to increase the price for .com domain name registrations for this reason. A failure to seek and obtain a price increase due to a Consensus Policy or Extraordinary Expense, when available, could negatively affect our operating results. We also have the right under the Cooperative Agreement to seek the removal of these pricing restrictions on the .com TLD if we demonstrate to the DOC that market conditions no longer warrant these restrictions. However, it is uncertain whether we will seek the removal of these restrictions, or whether the DOC would approve the removal of these restrictions. Our .com Registry Agreement, including its pricing provisions, has faced, and could face in the future, challenges, including possible legal challenges, or challenges under ICANN’s accountability mechanisms, from ICANN, registrars, registrants, and others, and any adverse outcome from these challenges could have a material adverse effect on our business. Governmental regulation and the application of new and existing laws in the U.S. and internationally may slow business growth, increase our costs of doing business, create potential liability and have an adverse effect on our business. Application of new and existing laws and regulations in the U.S. or internationally to the internet or the domain name industry have imposed and may in the future impose new costs and new restrictions on our business. Laws and regulations, including those designed to restrict who can register and who can distribute domain names or require registrants to provide additional documentation to register domain names, have, and may in the future, impose significant additional costs on our business and subject us to additional liabilities or could prevent us from operating in certain jurisdictions. For example, the government of China has indicated that it will issue, and has issued, new regulations, and has begun to enforce existing regulations, that impose additional costs on, and risks to, our provision of registry services in China and could impact the growth or renewal rates of domain name registrations in China. Registries, including us, and China-based registrars are also required by some of these regulations to obtain a government-issued license for each TLD operating in China. Any failure to obtain the required licenses, or to comply with any license requirements or any updates thereto, by us or our China-based registrars could impact our current and future business in China. In addition, laws have been, and may be in the future, adopted that are designed to restrict counterfeit goods or intellectual property violations such as cybersquatting or that restrict the transfer of data. The costs of complying or failing to comply with these laws and regulations could limit our ability to operate in our current locations, expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability, and result in costly and time-consuming litigation. Similarly, the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation, which greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of European Union law and adds broad new requirements for handling personal data, including the public disclosure of significant data breaches, and significant penalties, became effective in May 2018. Other countries and other states, such as California with 13 the California Consumer Privacy Act, have enacted or are enacting data protection laws regulating or limiting the collection, storage, and processing of personal data as well as granting new rights to data subjects. To conduct our operations, we regularly move data across national borders and receive data originating from different jurisdictions, and consequently we are subject to these continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations both in the United States and internationally regarding privacy, data protection and data security. The scope of the laws and regulations that are applicable to us is often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly with respect to international laws and regulations. These evolving legal, regulatory and compliance frameworks could impose significant costs for us that are likely to increase over time. In addition, as we market our TLDs in international locations, we are likely to raise our profile in certain foreign countries thereby increasing the regulatory and other scrutiny of our operations. Any negative developments arising from such increased scrutiny could diminish demand for our domain names, increase our costs of regulatory compliance, affect our reputation, expose us to liability, penalties or fines, force us to change our business practices or otherwise materially harm our business. Our international operations expose us and our business to additional economic, legal, regulatory and political risks that could have an adverse impact on our revenues and business. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from customers outside the U.S. Our business operations in international locations have required, and will continue to require, significant management attention and resources. We may also need to tailor some of our services for a particular location and to enter into international distribution and operating relationships. We may fail to maintain our ability to conduct business, including potentially material business operations in some international locations, or we may not succeed in expanding our services into new international locations or expand our presence in existing locations. Failure to do so could materially harm our business. Moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the U.S. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or U.S. law or regulations applicable to us. There can be no assurance that our employees, contractors and agents will not take actions in violation of such policies, procedures, laws and/or regulations. Violations of laws, regulations or internal policies and procedures by our employees, contractors or agents could result in financial reporting problems, investigations, fines, penalties, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products and services and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we face risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: • competition with companies in international locations or other domestic companies entering international locations in which we operate, as well as local governments actively promoting ccTLDs that we do not operate; • political and economic tensions between governments and changes in international trade policies and/or the economic and trade sanctions programs administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) of the U.S. Department of the Treasury; • tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • potential problems associated with adapting our services to technical conditions existing in different countries; • difficulties in verifying end-user information, including for the purposes of complying with the verification requirements of certain countries and with the economic and trade sanctions programs administered by OFAC; • more stringent privacy and data localization policies in some international jurisdictions; • additional vulnerability from terrorist groups targeting U.S. interests abroad; • potentially conflicting or adverse tax consequences; • reliance on third parties in international locations in which we only recently started doing business; and • potential concerns of international governments or customers and prospects regarding doing business with U.S. technology companies due to alleged U.S. government data collection policies. Escalating political tensions between the United States and China in particular may pose additional risks to our business in China. Since 2018, the United States and China have imposed tariffs on certain of each other’s exports. In 2019 and 2020, the U.S. government announced restrictions on trading with certain Chinese companies. The Chinese government subsequently announced actions that, if implemented, could impose additional restrictions on the Chinese operations of non-Chinese companies. These and future government actions impacting our ability to operate in China may cause our management’s attention to be diverted, our reputation to be damaged, or our business in China to be adversely affected. 14 Changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations or our tax positions may adversely affect our income taxes. We are subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous international jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our effective tax rates may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis because of a variety of factors, including changes in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our business or structure, changes in tax laws that could adversely impact our income or non-income taxes or the expiration of or disputes about certain tax agreements in a particular country. We are subject to audit by various tax authorities. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we recognize income tax benefits, net of required valuation allowances and accrual for uncertain tax positions. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. Should additional taxes be assessed as a result of an audit or litigation, an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (“OECD”) plans to issue a final report that will provide a long-term, multilateral proposal on the taxation of the digital economy. If this proposal is ultimately agreed to and implemented by the OECD’s member states, there could be significant modifications in the way multinational corporations are taxed. In addition, some international tax jurisdictions, independent of the OECD, have enacted or may enact new tax regimes aimed at income resulting from digital services. Although we cannot predict the nature or outcome of such changes or the likelihood of such proposals being adopted throughout the world and tax treaties being modified accordingly, any or all of these changes in tax policy for the digital economy could increase our taxes and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our business faces risks arising from ICANN’s consensus and temporary policies, technical standards and other processes. Our Registry Agreements with ICANN require us to implement Consensus Policies and changes mandated by ICANN through temporary specifications or policies (“Temporary Policies”). ICANN could adopt Consensus Policies or Temporary Policies that (1) are unfavorable to us as the registry operator of .com , .net and other gTLDs that we operate, (2) are inconsistent with our current or future plans, (3) impose substantial costs on our business, (4) subject the Company to additional legal risks, or (5) affect our competitive position. These Consensus Policies or Temporary Policies could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, ICANN has adopted a Consensus Policy that would require us to receive and display registrants’ personal and contact information and designated administrative and technical contact information (“Thick Whois data”) for .com and . net , although that Policy is undergoing modification by a new Consensus Policy that may make such transfer of Thick Whois data optional. We can provide no assurances that such a modification will occur or that we would not choose to receive and display Thick Whois data for our . com and . net registries under it. The costs of complying or failing to comply with Consensus and Temporary Policies could expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability and exposure, and result in costly and time-consuming investigations or litigation. Our Registry Agreements with ICANN require us to implement and comply with various technical standards and specifications published by the Internet Engineering Task Force (“IETF”). ICANN could impose requirements on us through changes to these IETF standards, or new standards, that are inconsistent with our current or future plans, that impose substantial costs on our business, that subject the Company to additional legal risks, or that affect our competitive position. Any such changes to the IETF standards, or new standards, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Changes to the multi-stakeholder model of internet governance could materially and adversely impact our business. The internet is governed under a multi-stakeholder model comprising civil society, the private sector, including for-profit and not-for-profit organizations such as ICANN, governments, including the U.S. government, academia, non-governmental organizations and international organizations. If ICANN fails to uphold or significantly redefines the multi-stakeholder model, it could harm our business. In the fourth quarter of 2016, the U.S. government completed a transition to the multi-stakeholder community of the historical role played by the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (“NTIA”) in the coordination of the DNS. Changes arising from this transition to the multi-stakeholder model of internet governance could materially and adversely impact our business. For example, ICANN has adopted bylaws that are designed, in part, to enhance its accountability through an organization called the Empowered Community, which is comprised of a cross section of stakeholders. ICANN or the Empowered Community may assert positions that could negatively impact our strategy or our business. By completing the transition, the U.S. government through the NTIA has ended its coordination and management of important aspects of the DNS including the IANA functions and the root zone. There can be no assurance that the removal of the U.S. government oversight of these key functions will not negatively impact our business. 15 Claims, lawsuits, audits or investigations in which we are or could become involved may result in adverse outcomes to our business. We are, and may in the future become, involved in claims, lawsuits, audits and investigations, including intellectual property litigation and infringement claims. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and unexpected judgments or excessive verdicts do occur. In addition, proceedings that we initially view as immaterial could prove to be material. Adverse outcomes in lawsuits, audits and investigations, could result in significant monetary damages, including indemnification payments, or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For example, the current arbitration proceeding against ICANN challenging the validity of ICANN’s award of the .web gTLD to us could adversely affect our ability to operate the .web gTLD. Given the inherent uncertainties in litigation, even when we are able to reasonably estimate the amount of possible loss or range of loss and therefore record an aggregate litigation accrual for probable and reasonably estimable loss contingencies, the accrual may change in the future due to new developments or changes in approach. In addition, such claims, lawsuits, audits and investigations could involve significant expense and diversion of management’s attention and resources from other matters. Strategic, Business and Operating Risk Factors The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic have impacted how we operate our business, and the extent to which the effects of the pandemic will impact our business, operations, financial condition and results of operations remains uncertain. The United States and the global community we serve are facing unprecedented challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. The pandemic, and the preventative measures taken in response to the pandemic (including “shelter-in-place” or “stay-at-home” and similar orders issued by international, federal, state or local authorities and the subsequent relaxation and re-imposition of such orders), have resulted in, and are expected to continue to result in, significant volatility, business and economic disruptions and uncertainty. In response to the pandemic, we have taken steps to protect our employees, including arranging for most of our employees to work remotely, while we continue to operate all of our services, including our registry services for .com and .net and our root operations. However, the extent to which the effects of the pandemic will continue to impact our business, operations, financial condition and results of operations remains uncertain and depends on numerous evolving factors that we may not be able to control or predict, including: • the duration and scope of the pandemic; • the extent and effectiveness of responsive actions, including the relaxation and re-imposition of orders by authorities and the delivery and administration of vaccines, and the impact of these and other factors on our employees, customers and vendors; • the impact of the pandemic on our key personnel and other employees (including the impact of work-from-home arrangements on employee productivity and morale); • the extent to which we are able to maintain and replace critical internet infrastructure components when necessary; • our continued ability to execute on business continuity plans for the maintenance of our critical internet infrastructure while most of our employees continue to work remotely; and • any negative impact on the demand for new and renewal domain name registrations resulting from the economic disruption caused by the pandemic and responses thereto. Further, the impact of COVID-19 and the volatile regional and global economic conditions stemming from the pandemic may also precipitate or exacerbate other risks discussed in these Risk Factors, any of which could have a material effect on us. As of the date of this Form 10-K, our financial condition and results of operations have not been adversely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Regardless, t his situation is uncertain and additional effects may arise that we are not presently aware of or that we currently do not consider present material risks to our operations. I f we are unable to successfully respond to and manage the impact of the pandemic, and the resulting responses to it, our business, operations, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted, and the impact could be material. The business environment is highly competitive and, if we do not compete effectively, we may suffer lower demand for our products, reduced gross margins, and loss of market share. We face competition from services that provide an online identity or presence, including other gTLD and ccTLD registries. In order to remain competitive and retain our market position, we must continually demonstrate the safety, security, and resiliency of our services and must adopt and support new technologies to adapt our services to changing technologies, market conditions, and our customers’ and internet users’ preferences and practices. If we do not successfully evolve and demonstrate the value of our services, we may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors, and such competitive pressures could materially harm our business. In addition, competing technologies developed by others or the emergence of new industry standards may adversely affect our competitive position or render our services or technologies 16 noncompetitive or obsolete. Finally, consolidation within our industry has occurred and is likely to continue to occur. Our ability to participate and benefit from such consolidations may be limited and consolidation within our industry amongst our competitors could harm our competitive position and adversely impact our business. We have been designated as the registry operator for certain new gTLDs, including certain IDN gTLDs. Our new gTLDs may not be as or more successful than the new gTLDs obtained by our competitors. In addition, our new gTLDs may face additional universal acceptance and usability challenges and it is possible that resolution of domain names within some of these new gTLDs may be blocked within certain state or organizational environments, challenging universal resolvability of these strings and their general acceptance and usability. See the “Competition” section in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K for further information. The evolution of technologies or internet practices and behaviors, the adoption of substitute technologies, or wholesale price increases of our domain names may negatively impact the demand for the domain names for which we are the registry operator. The growth of technologies, including social media, mobile devices, apps and the dominance of search engines, has evolved and continues to evolve, changing the internet practices and behaviors of consumers and businesses. These ongoing changes can negatively impact the demand for our domain names. In addition, registrants purchase domain names for a variety of reasons, including personal, commercial, and investment reasons. Changes in the motivation of domain name registrants can negatively impact our business. Technology changes to web browser or internet search technologies could reduce demand for domain names. Similarly, if internet users’ preferences or practices shift away from recognizing and relying on web addresses or if internet users were to significantly decrease the use of web browsers in favor of applications to locate and access content demand for our domain names could be negatively impacted. Demand for our domain names could be negatively impacted by new technologies that significantly decrease the use of domain names to develop and protect an online identity. New technologies that encourage internet users to expand the use of third-level domains or alternate identifiers, such as identifiers from social networking, e-commerce platforms and microblogging sites, could also negatively impact the demand for our domain names. In addition, demand for domain names in our TLDs could be impacted by alternative TLDs that are operated outside the single authoritative root zone have been and continue to be proposed, for example, as part of certain blockchain namespace systems. To the extent that web browsers, applications, registrars and DNS resolvers recognize and support such TLDs, and that internet users are able to perform online operations with such TLDs, demand for domain names in TLDs in the single authoritative root zone, including our TLDs, could be negatively impacted. Some registrars and registrants seek to purchase and resell domain names at an increased price. Adverse changes in the resale value of domain names, changes in the business models for such domain name registrars and registrants, or other factors, including regulations limiting the resale of domain names, could result in a decrease in the demand and/or renewal rates for domain names in our TLDs. Some registrars and registrants seek to generate revenues by registering domain names specifically for website advertising. Changes in the way these registrars and registrants are compensated (including changes in methodologies and metrics) by advertisers and advertisement placement networks, such as Google, Yahoo!, Baidu and Bing, have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect the market for domain names used for this purpose, which has resulted in, and may continue to result in, a decrease in demand and/or the renewal rate for such domain names. In addition, if spending on online advertising and marketing is reduced, this may result in a further decline in the demand for domain names used for this purpose. Under the terms of the .com Registry Agreement, as amended, we may increase the annual fee of each .com domain name registration or renewal by up to 7% over the previous year in each of the final four years of each six-year period. To the extent we increase wholesale prices, there could be a decrease in the demand and/or renewal rates for .com domain names. If we fail to expand our services into developing and emerging economies in foreign locations, our business may not grow. We seek to serve many new, developing and emerging economies in foreign locations to grow our business. These economies are rapidly evolving and may not grow or even if they do grow, our services may not be widely used or accepted there. Accordingly, the demand for our services in these locations is uncertain. Factors that may affect acceptance or adoption of our services in these locations include: • regional internet infrastructure development, expansion, penetration and adoption, and the development, maturity and depth of our sales channels; 17 • acceptance and adoption of substitute products and services that enable online presence without a domain name, including social media, e-commerce platforms, website builders and mobile applications; • increased acceptance and adoption of other substitute products and services, including ccTLDs or other gTLDs; • public perception of the security of our technologies and of IP and other networks; • the introduction and consumer acceptance of new generations of mobile devices, and in particular, the use of mobile applications as the primary engagement mechanism for navigating the internet; and • government regulations affecting the internet, internet access and availability, domain name registrations or the provision of registry services, data security or data localization, e-commerce or telecommunications. If our services are not widely accepted or adopted in these locations, our business may not grow. Our business depends on registrars and their resellers maintaining their focus on marketing our products and services. All of the domain name registrations and renewals for the registries we operate occur through registrars. Registrars and their resellers engage in substantial marketing efforts to increase the demand and/or renewal rates for domain names as well as their own associated offerings. Consolidation in the registrar or reseller industry or changes in ownership, management, or strategy among individual registrars or resellers, including vertical integration by registrar or reseller industry participants, could result in significant changes to their businesses, operating models, and cost structures. These changes could include reduced marketing efforts or other operational changes that could adversely impact the demand and/or the renewal rates for the domain names for which we are the registry operator. With the introduction of new gTLDs, many of our registrars and resellers have chosen to, and may continue to choose to, focus their short- or long-term marketing efforts on these new offerings and/or reduce the prominence or visibility of our products and services on their e-commerce platforms. Our registrars and resellers sell domain name registrations of other competing registries, including new gTLDs, and some also sell and support their own services for websites such as email, website hosting, and other services. Our registrars and resellers may be more motivated to sell to registrants to whom they can also market their own services. To the extent that registrars and resellers focus more on selling and supporting their services and less on the registration and renewal of domain names in our TLDs, our revenues could be adversely impacted. Our ability to successfully market our services to, and build and maintain strong relationships with, new and existing registrars or resellers is a factor upon which successful operation of our business is dependent. If we are unable to keep a significant portion of their marketing efforts focused on selling registrations of domain names in our TLDs, as opposed to other competing TLDs, including the new gTLDs, or their own services, our business could be harmed. We depend on highly skilled employees to maintain and provide innovative solutions for our business, and our business could be harmed if we are not able to attract and retain such qualified talent. Our business is highly technical and requires individuals skilled and knowledgeable in unique technologies, configurations, operating systems, and software development tools. We depend on the knowledge, experience, and performance of our highly skilled employees and leaders to effectively manage and provide innovative solutions for our business. For example, we require employees with expertise in DNS operations and with certain cybersecurity specialties. Because such employees are in high demand by our competitors and other companies, we must be able to attract, integrate, retain and motivate such highly skilled employees and leaders, and we must implement succession plans for these employees, or our business could be harmed. Intellectual Property Risk Factors We rely on our intellectual property rights to protect our proprietary assets, and any failure by us to protect or enforce, or any misappropriation of, our intellectual property could harm our business. Our success depends in part on our internally developed technologies and related intellectual property. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for an external party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. Furthermore, the laws of other countries may not protect our proprietary rights in those countries to the same extent U.S. law protects these rights in the U.S. In addition, it is possible that others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property. If we do not effectively protect our intellectual property, our business could suffer. Additionally, we have filed patent applications with respect to some of our technology in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and patent offices outside the U.S. Patents may not be awarded with respect to these applications and even if such patents are awarded, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge our patents, and such patents’ scope may differ significantly from what was requested in the patent applications and may not provide us with sufficient protection of our intellectual property. In the future, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. This type of litigation is inherently unpredictable and, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and 18 technical resources. Some of the software and protocols used in our business are based on standards set by standards setting organizations such as the IETF. To the extent any of our patents are considered “standards essential patents,” in some cases we may be required to license such patents to our competitors on reasonable and non-discriminatory terms or otherwise be limited in our ability to assert such patents. We also license externally developed technology that is used in some of our products and services to perform key functions. These externally developed technology licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The loss of, or our inability to obtain or maintain, any of these technology licenses could hinder or increase the cost of our services, launching new products and services, entering into new markets and/or otherwise harm our business. Some of the software and protocols used in our business are in the public domain or may otherwise become publicly available, which means that such software and protocols are equally available to our competitors. We rely on the strength of our Verisign brand to help differentiate Verisign in the marketing of our products. Dilution of the strength of our brand could harm our business. We are at risk that we will be unable to fully register, build equity in, or enforce the Verisign logo in all markets where Verisign products and services are sold.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties, including, among other things, statements regarding our expectations about (i) the impact from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, (ii) revenue growth in 2021, (iii) continued growth in registrations in the domain name base in 2021, (iv) cost of revenues, sales and marketing expenses, research and development expenses, general and administrative expenses, interest expense, and non-operating income, net, in 2021, (v) our effective tax rate for 2021, (vi) the sufficiency of our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, and funds generated from operations, together with our ability to arrange for additional financing, (vii) cash paid for income taxes in 2021, and (viii) our planned property and equipment expenditures for 2021. Forward-looking statements include, among others, those statements including the words “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “believes” and similar language. Our actual results may differ significantly from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section titled “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K. You should also carefully review the risks described in other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q or Current Reports on Form 8-K that we file in 2021. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law. This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses 2020 and 2019 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2020 and 2019. Discussions of 2018 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2019 and 2018 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019. Overview We are a global provider of domain name registry services and internet infrastructure, enabling internet navigation for many of the world’s most recognized domain names. We enable the security, stability, and resiliency of key internet infrastructure and services, including providing root zone maintainer services, operating two of the 13 global internet root servers, and providing registration services and authoritative resolution for the . com and . net top-level domains, which support the majority of global e-commerce. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 165.2 million . com and . net registrations in the domain name base. The number of domain names registered is largely driven by continued growth in online advertising, e-commerce, and the number of internet users, which is partially driven by greater availability of internet access, as well as marketing activities carried out by us and our registrars. Growth in the number of domain name registrations under our management may be hindered by certain factors, including overall economic conditions, competition from ccTLDs, other gTLDs, services that offer alternatives for an online presence, such as social media, and ongoing changes in the internet practices and behaviors of consumers and businesses. Factors such as the evolving practices and preferences of internet users, and how they navigate the internet, as well as the motivation of domain name registrants and how they will manage their investment in domain names, can negatively impact our business and the demand for new domain name registrations and renewals. 2020 Business Highlights and Trends • We recorded revenues of $1,265.1 million in 2020, which represents an increase of 3% compared to 2019. • We recorded operating income of $824.2 million during 2020, which represents an increase of 2% as compared to 2019. • We finished 2020 with 165.2 million .com and .net registrations in the domain name base, which represents a 4% increase from December 31, 2019. • During 2020, we processed 42.4 million new domain name registrations for . com and . net compared to 40.3 million in 2019. • The final .com and .net renewal rate was 73.7% for the third quarter of 2020 and 2019. Renewal rates are not fully measurable until 45 days after the end of the quarter. • We repurchased 3.7 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate cost of $734.9 million in 2020. As of December 31, 2020, there was $335.6 million remaining for future share repurchases under the share repurchase program. 23 • Effective February 11, 2021, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of our common stock in the amount of $747.0 million, in addition to the $253.0 million that remained available for repurchases under the share repurchase program, for a total repurchase authorization of up to $1.0 billion under the program. • We generated cash flows from operating activities of $730.2 million in 2020, which represents a decrease of 3% as compared to 2019. • During 2020, we recognized an income tax benefit of $204.2 million as a result of the remeasurement of certain previously unrecognized income tax benefits and the lapse of statutes of limitations related to other unrecognized income tax benefits. • During 2020, we announced a freeze on the registry prices for all of our TLDs, including .com and .net, through March 31, 2021. Additionally, we announced a waiver of the wholesale restore fee for expired domain names through the end of 2020. • On February 11, 2021, we announced that we will increase the annual registry-level wholesale fee for each new and renewal . com domain name registration from $7.85 to $8.39, effective September 1, 2021. COVID-19 Update The United States and the global community we serve are facing unprecedented challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. In response to the pandemic, we have established a task force to monitor the pandemic and have taken a number of actions to protect our employees, including restricting travel, modifying our sick leave policy to encourage quarantine and isolation when warranted, and directing most of our employees to work from home. We have implemented our readiness plans, which include the ability to maintain critical internet infrastructure with most employees working remotely. We believe that the effects of the pandemic to date have led to a modest increase in the demand for domain names, particularly as businesses and entrepreneurs have been seeking to establish or expand their presence online in response to the pandemic. Our revenues increased during 2020 primarily driven by an increase in the domain name base for the .com TLD; however, the situation remains uncertain and hard to predict. The broader implications of the pandemic on our business and operations and our financial results, including the extent to which the effects of the pandemic will impact future growth in the domain name base, remain uncertain. The duration and severity of the economic disruptions from the pandemic may ultimately result in negative impacts on our business and operations, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, liquidity and capital and financial resources. Because fees for domain name registrations and renewals are generally due at the time of registration or renewal and revenues from such registrations and renewals are recognized ratably over their terms, the effects of the pandemic may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. For further discussion, see “Risk Factors – The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic have impacted how we operate our business, and the extent to which the effects of the pandemic will impact our business, operations, financial condition and results of operations remains uncertain” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Management Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates those estimates. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. An accounting estimate is considered critical if the nature of the estimates or assumptions is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment involved, and the impact of changes in the estimates and assumptions would have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements. We believe the following critical accounting estimates and policies have the most significant impact on our consolidated financial statements: Income taxes We operate in multiple tax jurisdictions in the United States and internationally. Tax laws and regulations in these jurisdictions are complex, interrelated, and periodically changing. Significant judgment or interpretation of these laws and regulations is often required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, including, for example, the calculations of taxable income in each jurisdiction, deferred taxes, and the availability and amount of deductions and tax credits. The final taxes payable are also dependent upon many factors, including negotiations with taxing authorities in various jurisdictions and resolution of disputes arising from various tax examinations. We only recognize or continue to recognize tax positions and tax benefit amounts that are more likely than not to be sustained upon examination. We adjust these amounts in light 24 of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in an outcome that is materially different from our current estimate of unrecognized tax benefits. See Note 10, “Income Taxes” of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for a discussion of significant changes in unrecognized tax benefits during 2020. Results of Operations The following table presents information regarding our results of operations as a percentage of revenues: Revenues Our revenues are primarily derived from registrations for domain names in the .com and .net domain name registries. We also derive revenues from operating domain name registries for several other TLDs and from providing back-end registry services to a number of TLD registry operators, all of which are not significant in relation to our consolidated revenues. For domain names registered in the .com and .net registries we receive a fee from registrars per annual registration that is determined pursuant to our agreements with ICANN. Individual customers, called registrants, contract directly with registrars or their resellers, and the registrars in turn register the domain names with Verisign. Changes in revenues are driven largely by changes in the number of new domain name registrations and the renewal rate for existing registrations as well as the impact of new and prior price increases, to the extent permitted by ICANN and the DOC. New registrations and the renewal rate for existing registrations are impacted by continued growth in online advertising, e-commerce, and the number of internet users, as well as marketing activities carried out by us and our registrars. The annual fee for a . com domain name registration has been fixed at $7.85 since 2012. On October 26, 2018, Verisign and the DOC amended the Cooperative Agreement. The amendment, among other items, extends the term of the Cooperative Agreement until November 30, 2024 and permits the price of a .com domain name to be increased, subject to appropriate changes to the .com Registry Agreement, without further DOC approval, by up to 7% in each of the final four years of each six-year period beginning on October 26, 2018. On March 27, 2020, Verisign and ICANN amended the .com Registry Agreement (“Third .com Amendment”) that, among other items, incorporates these changes agreed to with the DOC to the pricing terms. We have the contractual right to increase the fees for .net domain name registrations by up to 10% each year during the term of our agreement with ICANN, through June 30, 2023. As part of our response to the COVID-19 crisis, we announced on March 25, 2020 that we would freeze registry prices for domain name registrations and renewals for all of our TLDs, including .com and .net , through the end of 2020. On July 23, 2020, we announced that we would extend the freeze on registry prices for all of our TLDs, including .com and .net , through March 31, 2021. On February 11, 2021, we announced that we will increase the annual registry-level wholesale fee for each new and renewal . com domain name registration from $7.85 to $8.39, effective September 1, 2021. We offer promotional incentive-based discount programs to registrars based upon market conditions and the business environment in which the registrars operate. All fees paid to us for .com and .net registrations are in U.S. dollars. A comparison of revenues is presented below: 25 The following table compares the . com and .net domain name registrations in the domain name base: Growth in the domain name base has been primarily driven by continued internet growth and marketing activities carried out by us and our registrars. However, competitive pressure from ccTLDs, other gTLDs, services that offer alternatives for an online presence, such as social media, ongoing changes in internet practices and behaviors of consumers and business, as well as the motivation of existing domain name registrants managing their investment in domain names, and historical global economic uncertainty, has limited the rate of growth of the domain name base in recent years and may continue to do so in 2021 and beyond. Revenues increased by $33.4 million in 2020 compared to 2019, primarily due to an increase in revenues from the operation of the registry for the .com TLD, partially offset by the elimination of revenues from our sale of our security services customer contracts. The increase in revenues from the .com TLD was driven by a 4% increase in the domain name base for .com . Geographic revenues We generate revenues in the U.S.; Europe, the Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”); China; and certain other countries, including Canada, Australia and Japan. The following table presents a comparison of the Company’s geographic revenues: Revenues in the table above are attributed to the country of domicile and the respective regions in which our registrars are located; however, this may differ from the regions where the registrars operate or where registrants are located. Revenue growth for each region may be impacted by registrars reincorporating, relocating, or from acquisitions or changes in affiliations of resellers. Revenue growth for each region may also be impacted by registrars domiciled in one region, registering domain names in another region. The majority of our revenue growth in 2020 has come from increased sales to registrars based in the U.S. and EMEA. Revenues from registrars based in China declined during 2020 as a result of lower new registrations and renewal rates in the country. We expect revenues to continue to grow in 2021, as a result of the increased volume of domain registrations in 2020, and continued growth in registrations in the domain name base in 2021. Cost of revenues Cost of revenues consist primarily of salaries and employee benefits expenses for our personnel who manage the operational systems, depreciation expenses, operational costs associated with the delivery of our services, fees paid to ICANN, customer support and training, costs of facilities and computer equipment used in these activities, telecommunications expense and allocations of indirect costs such as corporate overhead. 26 A comparison of cost of revenues is presented below: Cost of revenues remained consistent in 2020 compared to 2019, as a decrease in salary and employee benefits expenses was offset by an increase in direct cost of revenues. Salary and employee benefits expenses decreased by $2.3 million due to a functional realignment of some headcount to research and development, partially offset by headcount increases throughout the year and an increase in expenses for other employee benefits including expanded paid time off benefits provided to employees in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Direct cost of revenues increased by $1.8 million as a result of an increase in registry fees primarily related to the .com TLD. We expect cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues to increase slightly in 2021 as compared to 2020. Sales and marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries and other personnel-related expenses, travel and related expenses, trade shows, costs of computer and communications equipment and support services, facilities costs, consulting fees, costs of marketing programs, such as online, television, radio, print and direct mail advertising costs, and allocations of indirect costs such as corporate overhead. A comparison of sales and marketing expenses is presented below: Sales and marketing expenses decreased by $9.8 million in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily due to a $6.9 million decrease in advertising and marketing expenses and a combination of other individually insignificant factors. Advertising and marketing expenses declined as a result of decreases in marketing programs in various regions. We expect sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues to remain consistent in 2021 as compared to 2020. Research and development Research and development expenses consist primarily of costs related to research and development personnel, including salaries and other personnel-related expenses, consulting fees, facilities costs, computer and communications equipment, support services used in our service and technology development, and allocations of indirect costs such as corporate overhead. A comparison of research and development expenses is presented below: Research and development expenses increased by $13.9 million in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily due to increases in salary and employee benefits expenses and allocated overhead expenses. Salary and employee benefits expenses increased by $10.2 million as a result of several factors, including a functional realignment of some headcount from cost of revenues, additional headcount increases throughout the year, and an increase in expenses for other employee benefits including expanded paid time off benefits provided to employees in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Allocated overhead expenses increased by $4.0 million primarily due to an increase in average headcount relative to other cost types. We expect research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues to remain consistent in 2021 as compared to 2020. 27 General and administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and other personnel-related expenses for our executive, administrative, legal, finance, information technology and human resources personnel, costs of facilities, computer and communications equipment, management information systems, support services, professional services fees, and certain tax and license fees, offset by allocations of indirect costs such as facilities and shared services expenses to other cost types. A comparison of general and administrative expenses is presented below: General and administrative expenses increased by $11.6 million in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily due to increases in salary and employee benefits expenses, software license expenses, charitable contributions, and contract and professional services expenses, partially offset by a decrease in stock-based compensation expenses and an increase in overhead expenses allocated to other cost types. Salary and employee benefits expenses increased by $8.1 million as a result of an increase in average headcount as well as an increase in expenses for other employee benefits including expanded paid time off benefits provided to employees in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Software license expenses increased by $3.3 million due to expenses related to network security and other software services. Charitable contributions increased by $3.6 million to support the response to the COVID-19 pandemic and to promote equal justice. Contract and professional services expenses increased by $2.0 million due to increases in expenses for network security and other corporate support services. Stock-based compensation expense decreased by $2.4 million as a result of a decrease in the projected achievement levels on certain performance-based RSU grants. Overhead costs allocated to other cost types increased by $3.0 million due to an increase in total allocable expenses. We expect general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues to remain consistent in 2021 as compared to 2020. Interest expense See Note 4, “Debt and Interest Expense” of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. We expect interest expense to remain consistent in 2021 as compared to 2020. Non-operating income, net See Note 9, “Non-operating Income, Net” of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. We expect Non-operating income, net to decrease in 2021 as compared to 2020 due to the transition services income and gain recognized in 2020 in connection with the sale of our security services customer contracts which will not recur in 2021, and lower interest income in 2021 as a result of lower interest rates. Income tax (benefit) expense The effective tax rate for each of the periods in the table above differed from the statutory federal rate of 21% due to a lower foreign effective tax rate and excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation, offset by state income taxes and U.S. taxes on foreign earnings, net of foreign tax credits. Additionally, during 2020, we recognized an income tax benefit of $204.2 million as a result of the remeasurement of certain previously unrecognized income tax benefits. The majority of this tax benefit related to the worthless stock deduction taken in 2013. These remeasurements were based on written confirmations from Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), received in 2020, indicating no examination adjustments would be proposed related to the worthless stock deduction or certain other matters reviewed as part of the audit of our federal income tax returns for 2010 through 2014, and the lapse of statutes of limitations related to other unrecognized income tax benefits. Notwithstanding these written confirmations, our U.S. federal income tax returns for 2010 through 2014 remain under examination by the IRS. 28 As of December 31, 2020, we had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits of $74.4 million, net of valuation allowances, but before the offset of certain deferred tax liabilities. With the exception of deferred tax assets related to certain state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards, we believe it is more likely than not that the tax effects of the deferred tax liabilities, together with future taxable income, will be sufficient to fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. We qualified for a tax holiday in Switzerland until the end of 2019 which lowered tax rates on certain types of income and required certain thresholds of foreign source income. The tax holiday reduced our foreign income tax expense by $17.3 million ($0.15 per share) in 2019. The benefit from the tax holiday is calculated before consideration of any offsetting tax impact in the United States. Effective January 1, 2020, due to Swiss tax law changes, the tax holiday was eliminated, which was partially offset by a lowered statutory tax rate. We expect the effective tax rate for 2021 to be between 20% and 23%. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2020, our principal source of liquidity was $401.2 million of cash and cash equivalents and $765.7 million of marketable securities. The marketable securities consist primarily of debt securities issued by the U.S. Treasury meeting the criteria of our investment policy, which is focused on the preservation of our capital through investment in investment grade securities. The cash equivalents consist mainly of amounts invested in money market funds and U.S. Treasury bills purchased with original maturities of three months or less. As of December 31, 2020, all of our debt securities have contractual maturities of less than one year. Our cash and cash equivalents are readily accessible. For additional information on our investment portfolio, see Note 2, “Financial Instruments,” of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. In 2020, we repurchased 3.7 million shares of our common stock at an average stock price of $200.06 for an aggregate cost of $734.9 million under our share repurchase program. In 2019, we repurchased 3.9 million shares of our common stock at an average stock price of $188.84 for an aggregate cost of $738.5 million. Effective February 11, 2021, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of our common stock in the amount of $747.0 million, in addition to the $253.0 million that remained available for repurchases under the share repurchase program, for a total repurchase authorization of up to $1.0 billion under the program. As of December 31, 2020, we had $550.0 million principal amount outstanding of 4.75% senior unsecured notes due 2027, $500.0 million principal amount outstanding of the 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2025 and $750.0 million principal amount outstanding of the 4.625% senior unsecured notes due 2023. As of December 31, 2020, there were no borrowings outstanding under the $200.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility that will expire in 2024. We believe existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, and funds generated from operations, together with our ability to arrange for additional financing should be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditure requirements, and to service our debt for the next 12 months. We regularly assess our cash management approach and activities in view of our current and potential future needs. In summary, our cash flows for 2020, 2019, and 2018 were as follows: 29 Cash flows from operating activities Our largest source of operating cash flows is cash collections from our customers. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for personnel related expenditures, and other general operating expenses, as well as payments related to taxes, interest and facilities. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily due to an increase in cash paid for income taxes and decreases in cash received from interest on investments and from transition services, partially offset by an increase in cash received from customers. Cash paid for income taxes increased as we used the majority of our net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards by the end of 2019. Cash received from interest on investments decreased due to a decline in interest rates. Cash received from transition services decreased due to the expiration of the transition services agreement related to our sale of our security services customer contracts in February 2020. Cash received from customers increased primarily due to higher domain name registrations and renewals. Cash flows from investing activities The changes in cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to purchases, maturities and sales of marketable securities, purchases of property and equipment and the sale of businesses. We had net cash outflows from investing activities in 2020, compared to net cash inflows during 2019, primarily due to an increase in purchases of marketable securities and investments, net of proceeds from maturities and sales of marketable securities and investments, and an increase in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by contingent consideration received related to our sale of security services customer contracts. Cash flows from financing activities The changes in cash flows from financing activities primarily relate to share repurchases, repayment of borrowings, and our employee stock purchase plan. Net cash used in financing activities decreased in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily due to a decrease in share repurchases. Impact of Inflation We do not believe that inflation has had a significant impact on our operations in any of the periods presented. Income taxes We expect cash paid for income taxes as a percentage of pre-tax income to be between 20% and 23% in 2021. Property and Equipment Expenditures Our planned property and equipment expenditures for 2021 are anticipated to be between $55.0 million and $65.0 million and will primarily be focused on infrastructure upgrades and enhancements to our product portfolio. Contractual Obligations See Note 11, “Commitments and Contingencies,” Purchase Obligations and Contractual Agreements , of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements It is not our business practice to enter into off-balance sheet arrangements. As of December 31, 2020, we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements. See Note 11, “Commitments and Contingencies,” Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements , of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information regarding off-balance sheet arrangements. 30 Dilution from RSUs Grants of stock-based awards are key components of the compensation packages we provide to attract and retain certain of our employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders. We recognize that these stock-based awards dilute existing stockholders and have sought to control the number granted while providing competitive compensation packages. As of December 31, 2020, there are a total of 0.7 million unvested RSUs which represent potential dilution of less than 1.0%. This maximum potential dilution will only result if all outstanding RSUs vest and are settled. In recent years, our stock repurchase program has more than offset the dilutive effect of RSU grants to employees; however, we may reduce the level of our stock repurchases in the future as we may use our available cash for other purposes.