********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk, and you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer, possibly materially. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. SUMMARY OF RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, discussed in more detail in the following section. These risks include, among others, the following key risks: Risks Related to Our Business • All of our product revenues and the vast majority of our total revenues are derived from sales of medicines for the treatment of CF. If we are unable to continue to increase revenues from sales of our CF medicines, our business would be materially harmed and the market price of our common stock would likely decline. • We are investing significant resources in the research and development of therapies for serious diseases other than CF, and if we are unable to successfully commercialize one or more of these therapies, our business could be materially harmed. • If our competitors bring drugs with superior product profiles to market, our drugs may not be competitive and our revenues could decline. • If we discover safety issues with any of our products or if we fail to comply with continuing U.S. and applicable foreign regulations, commercialization efforts for the product could be negatively affected, the approved product could lose its approval or sales could be suspended, and our business could be materially harmed. • If physicians and patients do not accept our medicines, or if patients do not remain on treatment or comply with their prescribed dosing regimen, our product revenues would be materially harmed in future periods. • Government and other third-party payors seek to contain costs of health care through legislative and other means. If they fail to provide coverage and adequate reimbursement rates for our products, our revenues will be harmed. • We have experienced challenges commercializing products outside of the U.S, and our future revenues will be dependent on our ability to obtain adequate reimbursement for our products. • We have limited experience developing cell and genetic therapies and could experience challenges with these programs, which could result in delays or prevent the development, manufacturing and commercialization of our cell and genetic therapies. Risks Related to Development and Clinical Testing of Our Products and Drug Candidates • Our drug candidates remain subject to clinical testing and regulatory approval. Our future success is dependent on our ability to successfully develop additional drug candidates for both CF and non-CF indications. • If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval, we will be unable to commercialize our drug candidates. • If clinical trials are prolonged or delayed, our development timelines for the affected development program could be extended, our costs to develop the drug candidate could increase and the competitive position of the drug candidate could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Government Regulation • If regulatory authorities interpret any of our conduct, including our marketing practices, as being in violation of applicable health care laws, including fraud and abuse laws, laws prohibiting off-label promotion, disclosure laws or other similar laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. 26 • If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program or other governmental pricing programs in the U.S., we could be subject to additional reimbursement requirements, penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. • If our processes and systems are not compliant with regulatory requirements, we could be subject to restrictions on marketing our products or could be delayed in submitting regulatory filings seeking approvals for our drug candidates. • We are subject to various and evolving laws and regulations governing the privacy and security of personal data, and our failure to comply could adversely affect our business, result in fines and/or criminal penalties, and damage our reputation. Risks Related to Business Development Activities • Our ability to execute on our long-term strategy depends in part on our ability to engage in transactions and collaborations with other entities that add to our pipeline or provide us with new commercial opportunities. • We may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions of businesses or technologies, and the integration following any such acquisition may disrupt our business and management. • We face risks in connection with existing and future collaborations with respect to the development, manufacture and commercialization of our products and drug candidates. • We may not be able to attract collaborators or external funding for the development and commercialization of certain of our drug candidates. Risks Related to Third-Party Manufacturing and Reliance on Third Parties • We depend on third-party manufacturers to manufacture our products and the materials we require for our clinical trials. We may not be able to maintain these relationships and could experience supply disruptions outside of our control. • We rely on third parties to conduct pre-clinical work, clinical trials and other activities, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such studies and/or trials or failing to satisfy regulatory requirements. Risks Related to Intellectual Property • If our patents do not protect our drugs or our drugs infringe third-party patents, we could be subject to litigation which could result in injunctions preventing us from selling our products or substantial liabilities. • Uncertainty over intellectual property in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry has been the source of litigation and other disputes, which is inherently costly and unpredictable. • We may be subject to claims by third parties asserting that our employees or we have misappropriated their intellectual property, or claiming ownership of what we regard as our own intellectual property. Risks Related to Our Operations • Risks associated with operating in foreign countries could materially adversely affect our business. • We are subject to risks associated with the global COVID-19 pandemic. • If we fail to attract and retain skilled employees, our business could be materially harmed. • Our business faces potential risks relating to the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European Union. Risks Related to Financial Results and Holding Our Common Stock • Our stock price may fluctuate. • Changes in tax laws, regulations and treaties could affect our future taxable income. 27 Risks Related to Our Business All of our product revenues and the vast majority of our total revenues are derived from sales of medicines for the treatment of CF. If we are unable to continue to increase revenues from sales of our CF medicines, our business would be materially harmed and the market price of our common stock would likely decline. Our net product revenues and the vast majority of our total revenues are derived from the sale of our CF medicines. As a result, our future success is dependent upon our ability to increase revenues from sales of our CF medicines. This will require us to continue to gain approval and reimbursement for our triple combination therapy in ex-U.S. markets and successfully develop and commercialize our triple combination therapy for younger children with CF. Our concentrated source of revenues presents a number of risks to our business, including: • that one or more competing therapies may successfully be developed as a treatment for people with CF; • that reimbursement policies of payors and other third parties may make it difficult to obtain reimbursement or reduce the net price we receive for our products; • that we may experience manufacturing or supply disruptions for our CF medicines; and • that we may experience adverse developments with respect to development or commercialization of our CF medicines and/or CF drug candidates. If any of the above risks were to materialize, if we are otherwise unable to increase revenues from sales of our CF medicines, or if we do not meet the expectations of investors or public equity market analysts, our business would be materially harmed and our ability to fund our operations could be adversely affected. For example, if we are unable to increase revenues from sales of our CF medicines, our ability to fund our research and development programs for the discovery and development or acquisition of new products would be harmed, which would limit our ability to diversify our revenue base and our stock price would likely be adversely affected. We are investing significant resources in the research and development of therapies for serious diseases other than CF, and if we are unable to successfully commercialize one or more of these therapies, our business could be materially harmed. We are investing significant resources in the research and development of medicines for serious diseases including AAT deficiency, APOL1-mediated kidney diseases, pain, beta thalassemia, SCD, T1D, DMD and DM1. Some of these programs have progressed into clinical trials, while others are still in pre-clinical development. Product development is highly uncertain and expensive, and product candidates that may appear promising in the early phases of research and development may fail to reach commercial success for many reasons, including the failure to demonstrate acceptable clinical trial results or obtain marketing approval, the inability to manufacture or commercialize the product candidate on economically feasible terms, or the appearance of safety issues. For example, in October 2020, we discontinued development of VX-814, a drug candidate for the treatment of AAT, based on the safety and pharmacokinetic profile observed in a Phase 2 clinical trial. Even if we gain marketing approval for one or more pipeline products, we cannot be sure that we will obtain market acceptance or adequate reimbursement levels from third-party payors or foreign governments for such products. Additionally, many of the therapies that we are developing in our pipeline target rare diseases that affect a limited number of patients. There can be no guarantee that we will effectively identify patients that are eligible for enrollment in our clinical trials or treatment with our drug candidates. Even if we do successfully identify eligible patients, the number of patients that our drug candidates are able to treat may turn out to be lower than we expect or new patients may become increasingly difficult to identify, each of which may adversely affect our revenues and materially harm our business. For these and other reasons, we may never be successful in expanding our pipeline and future revenue may continue to depend on sales of our CF medicines. 28 If our competitors bring drugs with superior product profiles to market, our drugs may not be competitive and our revenues could decline. A number of companies are seeking to identify and develop drug candidates for the treatment of CF and other therapeutic areas we are targeting with our research and development activities. Our success in rapidly developing and commercializing our CF medicines may increase the resources that our competitors allocate to the development of potential competitive treatments. If one or more competing therapies are successfully developed as a treatment for people with CF or any of the other diseases we are currently targeting in our pipeline, our products and our net product revenues could face competitive pressures. If one or more competing therapies prove to be superior to our then existing products and/or drug candidates, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, our business faces competition from major pharmaceutical companies possessing substantially greater financial resources than we possess. We also face competition from numerous smaller public and private companies, academic institutions, government agencies, public and private research organizations and charitable venture philanthropy organizations that conduct research, seek patent protection and/or establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and commercialization. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of our competitors. Smaller and other early-stage companies also may prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. These third parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs. Our products and any drugs that we develop in the future may not be able to compete effectively with marketed drugs or new drugs that may be developed by competitors. The risk of competition is particularly important to our company because substantially all of our revenues as well as our most advanced drug candidates are related to the treatment of people with CF. There are many other companies developing drugs for the same patient populations that we are pursuing. In order to compete successfully in these areas, we must demonstrate improved safety, efficacy and/or tolerability, ease of manufacturing, and gain and maintain market acceptance over competing drugs. If we discover safety issues with any of our products or if we fail to comply with continuing U.S. and applicable foreign regulations, commercialization efforts for the product could be negatively affected, the approved product could lose its approval or sales could be suspended, and our business could be materially harmed. Our products are subject to continuing regulatory oversight, including the review of additional safety information. Drugs are more widely used by patients once approval has been obtained and therefore side effects and other problems may be observed after approval that were not seen or anticipated, or were not as prevalent or severe, during pre-approval clinical trials or nonclinical studies. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown or underestimated problems with a product could negatively affect commercial sales of the product, result in restrictions on the product or lead to the withdrawal of the product from the market. Three of our commercial products are combination products, and each of our products shares at least one active pharmaceutical ingredient with another of our products. As a result, if any of our CF products were to experience safety issues, our other CF products may be adversely affected. The reporting of adverse safety events involving our products or public speculation about such events could cause our stock price to decline or experience periods of volatility. Our business also may be materially harmed by impaired sales of our products, denial or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, required label changes or additional clinical trials, reputational harm, or government investigations or lawsuits brought against us. In addition, our products are subject to ongoing regulatory requirements governing the testing, manufacturing, labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, sale, distribution, import, export, recordkeeping and submission of safety and other post-market information. We and our third-party manufacturers must comply with cGMP and other applicable regulations governing the manufacturing and distribution of our products. Regulatory authorities periodically inspect our drug manufacturing facilities, and those of our third-party manufacturers, to evaluate compliance with cGMP and other regulatory requirements. If we or our collaborators, or third-parties acting on our behalf, fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we or our collaborators may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals for specific 29 products, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecutions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. If physicians and patients do not accept our medicines, or if patients do not remain on treatment or comply with their prescribed dosing regimen, our product revenues would be materially harmed in future periods. Our medicines may not gain or maintain market acceptance among physicians and patients. Effectively marketing our drugs and any of our drug candidates or investigational therapies, if approved, requires substantial efforts, both prior to launch and after approval. Physicians may elect not to prescribe our drugs or recommend our cell or genetic therapies, and patients may elect not to take them or receive them or they may discontinue use of our drugs after initiation of treatment, for a variety of reasons including: •    prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; •    lack of reimbursement availability from third-party payors, including governmental entities; •    lower demonstrated efficacy, safety and/or tolerability compared to alternative treatment methods; •    lack of cost-effectiveness; •    a decision to wait for the approval of other therapies in development that have significant perceived advantages over our drug; •    convenience and ease of administration; •    other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and •    inadequate sales, marketing and/or distribution support, including as a result of limitations or restrictions resulting from COVID-19. If our medicines fail to achieve or maintain market acceptance, we may not be able to generate significant revenues in future periods. Government and other third-party payors seek to contain costs of health care through legislative and other means. If they fail to provide coverage and adequate reimbursement rates for our products, our revenues will be harmed. Sales of our products depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. Third-party payors include government health programs such as Medicare and Medicaid in the U.S. and the national health care systems in ex-U.S. markets, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. The trend in the health care industry is cost containment, and efforts of third-party payors to contain or reduce health care costs may adversely affect our ability to establish or maintain appropriate prices for our products or any drugs that we may develop and commercialize. In most ex-U.S. markets, the pricing and reimbursement of therapeutic and other pharmaceutical products is subject to governmental control, and government authorities are making greater efforts to limit or regulate the price of drug products. In the U.S., there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement governmental controls that are similar to those that currently exist in Europe. For example, the ACA required manufacturers of Medicare Part D brand name drugs to provide discounts on those drugs to Medicare Part D beneficiaries during the coverage gap; increased the rebates paid by pharmaceutical companies to state Medicaid programs on drugs covered by Medicaid; and imposed an annual fee, which increases annually, on sales by branded pharmaceutical manufacturers. There also has been an increase in legislation and regulations related to drug pricing and drug pricing transparency. In the U.S., various states, including Nevada, Maryland, Louisiana, New York, California, Washington, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Utah, Minnesota and Oregon, have passed legislation requiring companies to disclose extensive information relating to drug prices, drug price increases, and spending on research, development, and marketing. Although it is not clear what states will do with the collected information, some laws were designed to obtain additional product discounts. We may continue to see more state action requiring additional disclosures or other actions. In addition, we could see increased federal activity related to drug pricing and transparency requiring disclosures or other actions instead of, or in addition to, state requirements. Similar initiatives are also occurring in, or being considered by, some of the ex-U.S. markets, including Italy and Brazil. 30 Complying with these laws is expensive and requires significant personnel and operational resources and deters focus on our business. Additionally, any additional required discounts would adversely affect the pricing of, and revenues from, our products. Finally, while we seek to comply with all statutory and regulatory requirements, we face increased enforcement activity by the U.S. federal government, state governments, and private payors against pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for pricing and reimbursement-related issues. Recently, there also has been rulemaking related to importation of prescription drugs from Canada as well as guidance related to importation of prescription drugs from other foreign countries. HHS also has issued a regulation seeking to establish a model for reference pricing of certain physician-administered drugs. While the recent regulation does not apply to our current medicines, it could affect future medicines. Additionally, in 2020, the Trump Administration issued several executive orders relating to drug pricing which were intended to broadly impact the pharmaceutical industry. Likewise, HHS recently issued a final regulation adopting changes to anti-kickback laws for rebates offered to pharmacy benefit managers. We expect such government scrutiny over drug pricing, reimbursement, and distribution to increase. Potential future government regulation of drug prices or reimbursement creates uncertainties about our portfolio and could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Third-party payors throughout the world also have been attempting to control drug spending through various other actions, and this is expected to be an area of intensified focus for all payors in light of the global economic pressures, including due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In reimbursement negotiations, many payors are demanding price discounts and caps on total expenditures and limiting both the types and variety of drugs that they will cover if they are not able to secure them. As part of these negotiations, many ex-U.S. government payers also are requiring companies to establish product cost-effectiveness as a condition of reimbursement and companies’ data-backed explanations are assessed by government agencies set up for this purpose. These cost-effectiveness reviews may not account for many of the benefits provided by innovative medicines, and for the most part, have not taken into account the specific circumstances of products that treat rare diseases. This has led to conclusions that certain medicines, including our products in certain jurisdictions, are not cost-effective. As a result, certain countries have declined to reimburse, or delayed their reimbursement of, some of our products. Although not mandated in the U.S., various organizations have started advocating for cost-effectiveness analyses in the U.S. If U.S. payors were to adopt such assessments and make negative coverage determinations, it could adversely affect our product revenues. Our business would be materially adversely affected if we are not able to obtain or maintain coverage and reimbursement of our products from third-party payors on a broad, timely or satisfactory basis or if such coverage is subject to overly broad or restrictive utilization management controls. The U.S. government, individual states and some foreign jurisdictions also have been aggressively pursuing legislative and regulatory reforms that could affect our ability to sell products. For example, in the U.S., there have been ongoing federal legislative and administrative efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the ACA. Various portions of the ACA are subject to legal challenges in various jurisdictions, including the U.S. Supreme Court, which could affect coverage and payment for medicines. Other reforms include the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, which contained various provisions that affect coverage and reimbursement of drugs, including an increase in the discount that manufacturers of Medicare Part D brand name drugs must provide to Medicare Part D beneficiaries during the coverage gap from 50% to 70%. There are a number of additional bills pending in Congress that would affect drug pricing in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Additional healthcare reform efforts have sought to address issues related to the COVID-19 pandemic, including an expansion of telehealth coverage under Medicare and accelerated or advanced Medicare payments to healthcare providers. Adoption of new healthcare reform legislation at the federal or state level could affect demand for, or pricing of, our products or product candidates if approved for sale. We cannot, however, predict the ultimate content, timing or effect of any healthcare reform legislation or action, or its impact on us, including increased compliance requirements and costs, all of which may adversely affect our future business, operations and financial results. The increasing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceuticals for rare diseases, combined with their relative higher cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, is generating significant third-party payor interest in developing cost-containment strategies targeted to this sector. Government regulations in both U.S. and ex-U.S. markets could further limit the prices that can be charged for our products and may limit our commercial opportunity. The increasing use of cost-effectiveness assessments in markets around the world and the financial challenges faced by many governments may lead to significant adverse effects on our business. Additionally, any legislation or regulatory changes or relaxation of laws that restrict imports of drugs from other countries, revisions to reimbursement or pharmaceuticals under government programs or general budget control actions also could reduce the net price we receive for our products. 31 We have experienced challenges commercializing products outside of the U.S., and our future revenues will be dependent on our ability to obtain adequate reimbursement for our products. In most ex-U.S. markets, the pricing and reimbursement of therapeutic and other pharmaceutical products is subject to governmental control. Given recent global economic pressures, including due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and geopolitical uncertainty, government authorities throughout the world are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of drug products. The reimbursement process in ex-U.S. markets can take a significant time to conclude and reimbursement decisions are made on a country-by-country basis. Our medicines treat life-threatening conditions and address relatively small patient populations, and our research and development programs are primarily focused on developing medicines to treat similar diseases. Particular attention is being paid by payors, including government and private payors, to these types of high-cost medicines, and countries are increasingly refusing to reimburse costly medicines. We have experienced challenges in obtaining timely reimbursement for our products in various countries outside the U.S. We continue to experience such challenges in some countries. For example, we obtained reimbursement for ORKAMBI and SYMKEVI in England in the fourth quarter of 2019, four years after ORKAMBI’s initial approval in 2015. Our future product revenues, including from TRIKAFTA/KAFTRIO, depend on, among other things, our ability to complete reimbursement discussions in ex-U.S. markets for our products. There is no assurance that coverage and reimbursement will be available outside of the U.S. for our four approved medicines or any future medicine, and, even if it is available, whether the timing or the level of reimbursement will be sufficient to allow us to market our medicines. Adverse pricing limitations or a delay in obtaining coverage and reimbursement would decrease our future net product revenues and harm our business. We have limited experience developing cell and genetic therapies and could experience challenges with these programs, which could result in delays or prevent the development, manufacturing and commercialization of our cell and genetic therapies. We are investing significant resources in the research, development and manufacturing of cell and genetic therapies. While we have previously successfully developed, manufactured and commercialized several small molecule drugs, we have limited experience with the development, manufacture and commercialization of cell and genetic therapies. Development, manufacturing and commercialization of cell and genetic therapies are subject to the same risks and uncertainties as development, manufacturing and commercializing small molecules. In addition: • the manufacturing processes for cell and genetic therapies are different and more complex than the manufacturing processes required for small molecule drugs, and require different systems, equipment, facilities and expertise to develop and maintain; • we may encounter difficulties in the production of our cell and genetic therapies and ensuring that the product meets required specifications; • there have been a limited number of regulatory approvals for genetic therapies to date, the regulatory requirements governing genetic therapies continue to evolve, and regulatory positions and interpretations can change or lead to delays or significant unexpected costs with respect to our genetic therapy programs; • the commercial success of cell or genetic therapies, including CTX001, if approved, will depend in part on the medical community, patients, and third-party or governmental payers accepting cell or genetic therapy products in general, and the applicable medicine as medically useful, cost-effective, and safe; and • market acceptance will be dependent in part on the prevalence and severity of side effects associated with the procedure by which the cell or genetic therapy is administered, including, with respect to CTX001, if approved, the prevalence and severity of any side effects resulting from the myeloablative preconditioning regimen. For programs addressing rare genetic diseases with small patient populations, we may not be able to identify, recruit and enroll a sufficient number of patients, or those with required or desired characteristics, to complete our clinical studies in an adequate and timely manner. Additionally, patients may be unwilling to participate in our clinical trials because of concerns that cell and genetic therapies are unsafe or unethical, negative publicity from adverse events in the biotechnology or gene therapy industries or for other reasons, including competitive clinical studies for similar patient populations. 32 In order to develop and commercialize any future cell or genetic therapies, we will need to incur substantial expenditures to develop, contract for, or otherwise arrange for the necessary manufacturing capabilities. Additionally, the manufacture of cell and genetic therapies requires significant expertise. Even with the relevant experience and expertise, manufacturers of cell and genetic therapy products often encounter difficulties in production, including difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, and compliance with federal, state and foreign regulations. We cannot make any assurances that these problems will not occur, or that we will be able to resolve or address problems that occur in a timely manner, or at all. To the extent we develop capabilities internally, there are many risks that could result in delays and additional costs, including the need to hire and train qualified employees and obtain access to necessary equipment and third-party technology. To the extent we partner with third parties to manufacture our cell or genetic therapies, any complexity in the manufacture of our products and product candidates may require lengthy technology transfers. There also is significant uncertainty related to the insurance coverage and reimbursement of cell or genetic therapy products, including gene therapies that are potential one-time treatments. It is difficult to predict what third party payors, including U.S. or ex-U.S. governments or private insurance companies, will decide with respect to reimbursement for novel cell and genetic therapies like the ones in our pipeline. Additionally, reimbursement rates for cell and genetic therapies approved before ours could create an adverse environment for reimbursement of any therapies we ultimately commercialize. The administration of our products may require procedures for the collection of cells from patients, followed by other procedures either before or after delivery of the cell or genetic therapy. The manner and level at which reimbursement is provided for these services also is important. An inadequate reimbursement for such services may adversely affect physician decision to recommend any product for which we obtain approval in the future and our ability to market or sell them. Given there are only a few approved cell and genetic therapy products, it also is difficult to determine how long it will take or reasonably estimate the costs to develop, manufacture and commercialize cell or genetic therapies. In addition, our cell-based therapies include approaches involving devices, which are subject to additional regulatory requirements. If we are unable to successfully develop, manufacture or commercialize such therapies on a timely or profitable basis, or at all, we may not realize benefits or generate cash flows based on our investments in these programs and our business, financial condition, results of operations and our stock price would likely be adversely affected. We are dependent upon a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of, or significant reduction in sales to, these customers would adversely affect our results of operations. In the U.S., we sell our products principally to a limited number of specialty pharmacy and specialty distributors, which subsequently resell our products to patients and health care providers. Internationally, we sell our products primarily to a limited number of specialty distributors and retail chains, as well as hospitals and clinics. We expect this significant customer concentration to continue for the foreseeable future. Our ability to generate and grow sales of our CF medicines will depend significantly on the extent to which these specialty distributors and specialty pharmacies are able to provide adequate distribution of our products to patients and healthcare providers. The loss of any large customer, a significant reduction in sales we make to them, any cancellation of orders they have made with us, or any failure to pay for the products we have shipped to them could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Development and Clinical Testing of Our Products and Drug Candidates Our drug candidates remain subject to clinical testing and regulatory approval. Our future success is dependent on our ability to successfully develop additional drug candidates for both CF and non-CF indications. Our business depends upon the successful development and commercialization of drug candidates. These drug candidates are in various stages of development and must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before they can be approved for sale by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities. To satisfy these standards, we must allocate resources among our various development programs and must engage in expensive and lengthy testing of our drug candidates. Discovery and development efforts for new pharmaceutical products, including new combination therapies, are resource-intensive and may take 10 to 15 years or longer for each drug candidate. Despite our efforts, our drug candidates may not: •    offer therapeutic or other improvement over existing competitive therapies; •    show the level of safety and efficacy, including the level of statistical significance, required by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for approval of a drug candidate; 33 •    meet applicable regulatory standards; •    be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; or •    if approved for commercial sale, be successfully marketed as pharmaceutical products. We have recently completed and/or have ongoing or planned clinical trials for several of our drug candidates. The strength of our product portfolio and pipeline will depend in large part upon the outcomes of these clinical trials, including clinical trials evaluating our triple combination therapy in younger children with CF and our clinical trials of potential medicines to treat other diseases. Results of our clinical trials and findings from our nonclinical studies, including toxicology findings in nonclinical studies conducted concurrently with clinical trials, could lead to abrupt changes in our development activities, including the possible cessation of development activities associated with a particular drug candidate or program. For example, in October 2020, we discontinued development of VX-814, a drug candidate for the treatment of AAT, based on the safety and pharmacokinetic profile observed in the clinical trial. Moreover, clinical data are often susceptible to varying interpretations, and many companies that have believed their drug candidates performed satisfactorily in clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain marketing approval of their drug candidate. Furthermore, results from our clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance or otherwise provide the level of evidence or safety and efficacy required by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for approval of a drug candidate. Finally, clinical trials are expensive and require significant operational resources to implement and maintain. Many companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including our company, have suffered significant setbacks in later-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in earlier-stage clinical trials. For example, the results from completed preclinical studies and clinical trials may not be replicated in later clinical trials, and ongoing clinical trials for our drug candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later-stage clinical trials or of the likelihood of approval of a drug candidate for commercial sale. In addition, from time to time, we report interim data from our clinical trials. Interim data from a clinical trial may not be predictive of final results from the clinical trial. Failure to advance drug candidates through clinical development could impair our ability to ultimately commercialize products, which could materially harm our business and long-term prospects. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval, we will be unable to commercialize our drug candidates. The time required to complete clinical trials and to satisfy the FDA and other countries’ regulatory review processes is uncertain and typically takes many years. Our analysis of data obtained from nonclinical and clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. We also may encounter unanticipated delays or increased costs due to government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in governmental policy during the period of drug development, clinical trials and governmental regulatory review. We may seek a Fast Track, Priority Review, Breakthrough Therapy, and/or RMAT designation for some of our drug candidates. Drug candidates that receive one or more of these designations may be eligible for, among other things, a priority regulatory review. Each of these designations is within the discretion of the FDA. Accordingly, even if we believe one of our drug candidates meets the criteria for Fast Track, Priority Review, Breakthrough Therapy and/or RMAT designation, the FDA may disagree and instead determine not to make such designation. The receipt of one or more of these designations for a drug candidate does not guarantee a faster development process, review or approval compared to drugs developed or considered for approval under conventional FDA procedures and does not assure ultimate approval by the FDA. In addition, even if one or more of our drugs or drug candidates qualifies for Fast Track, Priority Review, Breakthrough Therapy and/or RMAT designation, the FDA may later decide to withdraw such designation if it determines that the drug or drug candidate no longer meets the conditions for qualification. Any failure to obtain regulatory approvals for a drug candidate would prevent us from commercializing that drug candidate. Any delay in obtaining required regulatory approvals could materially adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize a drug candidate. Furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a drug may be subject to limitations that we do not expect on the indicated uses for which we may market the drug. Any such limitations could reduce the size or demand of the market for the drug. We also are subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. Non-U.S. jurisdictions have different approval 34 procedures than those required by the FDA, and these jurisdictions may impose additional testing requirements for our drug candidates. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with the FDA approval process described above, as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of foreign requirements. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities outside the U.S. and approval by a foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by the FDA. In addition, although the FDA may accept data from clinical trials conducted outside the U.S., acceptance of this data is subject to conditions imposed by the FDA. For example, the clinical trial must be well designed and conducted and performed by qualified investigators in accordance with ethical principles. The trial population also must adequately represent the U.S. population, and the data must be applicable to the U.S. population and U.S. medical practice in ways that the FDA deems clinically meaningful. In addition, while these clinical trials are subject to applicable local laws, FDA acceptance of the data will depend on its determination that the trials also complied with all applicable U.S. laws and regulations. If the FDA does not accept the data from any trial that we conduct outside the U.S., it would likely result in the need for additional trials, which would be costly and time-consuming and delay or permanently halt our development of the applicable drug candidate. If clinical trials are prolonged or delayed, our development timelines for the affected development program could be extended, our costs to develop the drug candidate could increase and the competitive position of the drug candidate could be adversely affected. We cannot predict whether or not we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend clinical trials, or delay the analysis of data from our completed or ongoing clinical trials. Among the factors that could delay our development programs are: •    ongoing discussions with the FDA or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials and the number of clinical trials we must conduct; •    delays in enrolling volunteers or patients into clinical trials, including as a result of low numbers of patients that meet the eligibility criteria for the trial; •    a lower than anticipated retention rate of volunteers or patients in clinical trials; •    the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results, unforeseen complications in testing or clinical investigator error; •    inadequate supply or deficient quality of drug candidate materials or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials; •    unfavorable FDA or foreign regulatory authority inspection and review of a manufacturing facility that supplied clinical trial materials or its relevant manufacturing records or a clinical trial site or records of any clinical or preclinical investigation; •    unfavorable scientific results from clinical trials; •    serious and unexpected drug-related side-effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials or by participants in clinical trials being conducted by our competitors to evaluate drug candidates with similar mechanisms of action or structures to therapies that we are developing; •    favorable results in testing of our competitors’ drug candidates, or FDA or foreign regulatory authority approval of our competitors’ drug candidates; or •    action by the FDA or a foreign regulatory authority to place a clinical hold or partial clinical hold on a trial or compound or deeming the clinical trial conduct as problematic. Our ability to enroll patients in our clinical trials in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis is subject to a number of factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the number of other clinical trials ongoing and competing for patients in the same indication, the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial, and the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, patients may drop out of our clinical trials or may be lost to follow-up medical evaluation after treatment ends, and this could impair the validity or statistical significance of the trials. Clinical trials are expensive and require significant operational 35 resources. Delays in patient enrollment or unforeseen drop-out rates may result in increased costs and longer development times. We, our collaborators, the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time if we or they believe the healthy volunteers or patients participating in such clinical trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. Any such suspension could materially adversely affect the development of a particular drug candidate and our business. Risks Related to Government Regulation If regulatory authorities interpret any of our conduct, including our marketing practices, as being in violation of applicable health care laws, including fraud and abuse laws, laws prohibiting off-label promotion, disclosure laws or other similar laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. We are subject to health care fraud and abuse laws, such as the federal False Claims Act and anti-kickback laws, which prohibit off-label product promotion and other similar laws and regulations both in the U.S. and in non-U.S. markets. The federal anti-kickback law prohibits knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the ordering, furnishing, arranging for or recommending of an item or service that is reimbursable, in whole or in part, by a federal health care program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. Because of the broad scope of the prohibition, most financial interactions between pharmaceutical manufacturers and prescribers, purchasers, third party payors and patients would be subject to the statute. Although there are a number of statutory exceptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exceptions and safe harbors are narrow. Financial interactions must therefore be structured carefully to qualify for protection or otherwise withstand scrutiny. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. Pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the FDA has not approved, known as “off-label” uses, that caused claims to be submitted to Medicaid for those off-label uses; submitting inflated “best price” information to the Medicaid Rebate Program; and certain manufacturing-related violations. The scope of this and other laws may expand in ways that make compliance more difficult and expensive. Although physicians are permitted, based on their medical judgment, to prescribe products for indications other than those approved by the FDA, manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products for such off-label uses. We market our products to eligible people with CF for whom the applicable product has been approved and provide promotional materials and training programs to physicians regarding the use of each product in these patient populations. These eligible people do not represent all people with CF. If the FDA determines that our promotional materials, training or other activities constitute off-label promotion, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or other activities, conduct corrective advertising or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. It also is possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they believe that the alleged improper promotion led to the submission and payment of claims for an off-label use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. Even if it is later determined we were not in violation of these laws, we may be faced with negative publicity, incur significant expenses defending our actions and have to divert significant management resources from other matters. In the U.S., federal and state laws regulate financial interactions between pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers, require disclosure to government authorities and the public of such interactions, and mandate the adoption of compliance standards or programs. For example, the so-called federal “sunshine law” requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to report annually to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, payments or other transfers of value made by that entity to physicians and teaching hospitals (and additional categories of health care practitioners beginning with reports submitted on or after January 1, 2022). We also have similar reporting obligations with respect to financial interactions throughout the E.U. We expended significant efforts to establish, and are continuing to devote significant resources to 36 maintain and enhance, systems and processes in order to comply with these regulations. Requirements to track and disclose financial interactions with health care providers and organizations increase government and public scrutiny of these financial interactions. Failure to comply with the reporting requirements could result in significant civil monetary penalties. The sales and marketing practices of our industry have been the subject of increased scrutiny from government authorities in the U.S. and other countries in which we market our products, and we believe that this trend will continue. Many of these laws have not been fully interpreted by the government authorities or the courts, and their provisions are subject to a variety of interpretations. While we have a corporate compliance program which, together with our policies and procedures, is designed to actively identify, prevent and mitigate risk through the implementation of compliance policies and systems and the promotion of a culture of compliance, if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws and regulations, our business could be materially harmed. We may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal health care programs and/or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Even if we successfully defend against government challenge, responding to the challenge may cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program or other governmental pricing programs in the U.S., we could be subject to additional reimbursement requirements, penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. We participate in the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, the 340B Drug Pricing Program, and a number of other federal and state government pricing programs in the U.S. in order to obtain coverage for our products by certain government health care programs. These programs would generally require us to pay rebates or provide discounts to certain private purchasers or government payers in connection with our products when dispensed to beneficiaries of these programs. In some cases, such as with the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, the rebates are based on pricing and rebate calculations that we report on a monthly and quarterly basis to the government agencies that administer the programs. The terms, scope and complexity of these government pricing programs change frequently. We may also have reimbursement obligations or be subject to penalties if we fail to provide timely and accurate information to the government, pay the correct rebates or offer the correct discounted pricing. Changes to the price reporting or rebate requirements of these programs would affect our obligations to pay rebates or offer discounts. CMS recently proposed changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate calculations to address treatment of value-based arrangements, accumulator adjustment programs implemented by payers, and new formulations of existing products. Responding to current and future changes to these and other Medicaid Rebate requirements may increase our costs and the complexity of compliance, will be time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If our processes and systems are not compliant with regulatory requirements, we could be subject to restrictions on marketing our products or could be delayed in submitting regulatory filings seeking approvals for our drug candidates. We have a number of regulated processes and systems that are required both prior to and following approval of our drugs and drug candidates. These processes and systems are subject to continual review and periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. In addition, the clinical research organizations and other third parties that we work with in our non-clinical studies and clinical trials and our oversight of such parties are subject to similar reviews and periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. If compliance issues are identified at any point in the development and approval process, we may experience delays in filing for regulatory approval for our drug candidates, or delays in obtaining regulatory approval after filing, if at all. Any later discovery of previously unknown problems or safety issues with approved drugs or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on such drugs or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of drugs from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal penalties or a refusal by the FDA and/or other regulatory bodies to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we are party to agreements that transfer responsibility for complying with specified regulatory requirements, such as filing and maintenance of marketing authorizations and safety reporting or compliance with manufacturing requirements, to our collaborators and third-party manufacturers. If our collaborators or third-party manufacturers do not fulfill these regulatory obligations, any drugs for which we or they obtain approval may be subject to later restrictions on manufacturing or sale, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 37 We are subject to various and evolving laws and regulations governing the privacy and security of personal data, and our failure to comply could adversely affect our business, result in fines and/or criminal penalties, and damage our reputation. We are subject to data privacy and security laws and regulations in various jurisdictions that apply to the collection, storage, use, sharing and security of personal data, including health information, and impose significant compliance obligations. In addition, numerous other federal and state laws, including state security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws and federal and state consumer protection laws, govern the collection, use, disclosure and security of personal information. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect our business. For example, the E.U. General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, went into effect in 2018 and has imposed new obligations on us with respect to our processing of personal data and the cross-border transfer of such data, including higher standards of obtaining consent, more robust transparency requirements, data breach notification requirements, requirements for contractual language with our data processors, and stronger individual data rights. Different E.U. member states have interpreted the GDPR differently and many have imposed additional requirements, which add to the complexity of processing personal data in the E.U. The GDPR also imposes strict rules on the transfer of personal data to countries outside the E.U., including the U.S., and permits data protection authorities to impose large penalties for violations of the GDPR. Compliance with the GDPR is a rigorous and time-intensive process that may increase our cost of doing business or require us to change our business practices, and despite those efforts, there is a risk that we may be subject to fines and penalties, litigation, and reputational harm in connection with any activities falling within the scope of the GDPR. In the U.S., California has passed the California Consumer Privacy Act, which went into effect on January 1, 2020, and several states and the federal government are actively considering proposed legislation governing the protection of personal data. Additionally, Brazil passed the General Data Protection Law, or LGPD, which went into effect in August 2020. While we continue to address the implications of the new data privacy regulations, data privacy remains an evolving landscape at both the domestic and international level, with new regulations coming into effect and continued legal challenges. Each law is also subject to various interpretations by courts and regulatory agencies, creating even more uncertainty. While we have a global privacy program that addresses such laws and regulations, our efforts to comply with the evolving data protection rules may be unsuccessful. We must devote significant resources to understanding and complying with the changing landscape in this area. Failure to comply with data protection laws may expose us to risk of enforcement actions taken by data protection authorities, private rights of action in some jurisdictions, and potential significant penalties if we are found to be non-compliant. Failure to comply with the GDPR and applicable national data protection laws of European Economic Area member states could lead to fines of up to €20,000,000 or up to 4% of the total worldwide annual revenue of the preceding financial year, whichever is higher. Some of these laws and regulations also carry the possibility of criminal sanctions. For example, while we are not directly subject to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HIPAA, we could be subject to penalties, including criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain or disclose individually identifiable health information from a HIPAA-covered health care provider or research institution that has not complied with HIPAA’s requirements for disclosing such information. Furthermore, the number of government investigations related to data security incidents and privacy violations continue to increase and government investigations typically require significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could harm our business and our reputation. The COVID-19 pandemic has added further complexity to the processing of personal data. For example, safety measures intended to protect our employees, contractors, and other visitors to our sites may require the collection of certain personal data. Although we are focused on ensuring that personal data is properly protected, our efforts may be unsuccessful and we could unintentionally be subject to unauthorized access or disclosure of such personal data. Clinical Trial Regulation (EU) No. 536/2014, or the Clinical Trial Regulation, and the EMA policy on publication of clinical data for medicinal products for human use both permit the EMA to publish clinical information submitted in MAAs. This provision of the Clinical Trial Regulation is expected to be effective by the end of 2021. The ability of third parties to review and/or analyze data from our clinical trials may increase the risk of commercial confidentiality breaches and result in enhanced scrutiny of our clinical trial results. Such scrutiny could result in public misconceptions regarding our drugs and drug candidates. These publications could also result in the disclosure of information to our competitors that we might otherwise deem confidential, which could harm our business. 38 If we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. Our research and development efforts involve the regulated use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various controlled and radioactive compounds. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by state, federal and foreign regulations, the risk of loss of, or accidental contamination or injury from, these materials cannot be eliminated. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. We also are subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. Although we maintain workers’ compensation insurance to cover us for costs we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. We maintain insurance to cover pollution conditions or other extraordinary or unanticipated events relating to our use and disposal of hazardous materials that we believe is appropriate based on the small amount of hazardous materials we generate. Additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. We may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. Risks Related to Business Development Activities Our ability to execute on our long-term strategy depends in part on our ability to engage in transactions and collaborations with other entities that add to our pipeline or provide us with new commercial opportunities. In order to achieve our long-term business objectives, we seek to license or acquire drugs, drug candidates and other technologies that have the potential to complement our ongoing research and development efforts, access emerging technologies and license or acquire pipeline assets. These transactions may be similar to prior transactions or may involve larger transactions or later-stage assets. We have faced and will continue to face significant competition for the acquisition of rights to these types of drugs, drug candidates and other technologies from a variety of other companies, many of which have significantly more financial resources and experience in business development activities than we have. In addition, non-profit organizations may be willing to provide capital to the companies that control additional drugs, drug candidates or technologies, which may provide incentives for companies to advance these drugs, drug candidates or technologies independently. Also, the cost of acquiring, in-licensing or otherwise obtaining rights to such drugs, drug candidates or other technologies has grown dramatically in recent years and may be at levels that we cannot afford or that we believe are not justified by market potential. As a result, we may not be able to acquire, in-license or otherwise obtain rights to additional drugs, drug candidates or other technologies on acceptable terms or at all. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions of businesses or technologies, and the integration following any such acquisition may disrupt our business and management. It is challenging to effectively integrate businesses and technologies that we acquire, including the acquisitions of Semma and Exonics and the exclusive licenses that we have acquired from CRISPR and Moderna, and we may not realize the benefits anticipated from such transactions. Achieving the anticipated benefits of any transaction and successfully integrating acquired businesses or technologies involves a number of risks, including: •    failure to successfully develop and commercialize the acquired drugs, drug candidates or technologies or to achieve other strategic objectives; •    delays or inability to progress preclinical programs into clinical development or unfavorable data from clinical trials evaluating the acquired or licensed drug or drug candidates; •    difficulty in integrating the drugs, drug candidates, technologies, business operations and personnel of an acquired asset or company; •    disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and employees from daily operations or other opportunities and challenges; • the potential loss of key employees of an acquired company; 39 •    entry into markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience or where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; •    potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant problems, liabilities or challenges of an acquired company, or acquired or licensed drug, drug candidate or technology, including but not limited to, problems, liabilities or challenges with respect to intellectual property, clinical or non-clinical data, safety, accounting practices, employee, or third-party relations and other known and unknown liabilities; •    liability for activities of the acquired company or licensor before the acquisition or license, including intellectual property infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities; •    exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of an acquisition or license, including but not limited to, claims from terminated employees, customers, former equity holders or other third parties; and •    difficulties in the integration of the acquired company’s departments, systems, including accounting, human resource and other administrative systems, technologies, books and records, and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards, controls, including internal control over financial reporting required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related procedures and policies. Acquisitions, licensing arrangements and other strategic transactions are inherently risky, and ultimately, if we do not complete an announced acquisition, collaboration or strategic transaction or integrate an acquired or licensed asset, business or technology successfully and in a timely manner, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the strategic transaction. We may later incur impairment charges related to assets acquired in any such transaction. For example, we entered into a strategic collaboration and license agreement with Parion Sciences, Inc. to develop ENaC inhibitors in 2015 and incurred an impairment charge related to this collaboration in 2017. Even if we achieve the long-term benefits associated with our strategic transactions, our expenses and short-term costs may increase materially and adversely affect our liquidity and short-term net income. Future strategic transactions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, the creation of contingent liabilities, impairment expenses related to goodwill, or impairment or amortization expenses related to other intangible assets, all of which could harm our financial condition. We face risks in connection with existing and future collaborations with respect to the development, manufacture and commercialization of our products and drug candidates. The risks that we face in connection with our current collaborations, including CRISPR, and any future collaborations, include the following: •    Our collaborators may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts or may have insufficient resources or expertise to effectively develop, manufacture or commercialize our drug candidates. • The ability of some of our therapies to reach their potential could be limited if collaborators are unable to effectively develop, manufacture or commercialize these therapies or drug candidates or decrease or fail to increase development or commercialization efforts related to those therapies or drug candidates. Our collaboration agreements allocate development, manufacturing and commercialization responsibilities between us and our collaborators and provide our collaborators with a level of discretion in determining the amount and timing of efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations. • Our collaborators may have limited experience in developing, manufacturing and commercializing therapies, either generally, or in the specific therapeutic area. For example, CRISPR, which is responsible for leading commercialization of CTX001 in the U.S., has no prior experience commercializing a therapy and is in the process of establishing the capabilities that would be required to commercialize CTX001 in the U.S. •    Collaboration agreements may have the effect of limiting the areas of research and development that we may pursue, either alone or in collaboration with third parties. 40 •    Collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, drugs that are similar to or competitive with the drugs or drug candidates that are the subject of their collaborations with us. •    Disagreements with collaborators, including disagreements over proprietary rights, contract interpretation or the preferred course of development, might cause delays or termination of the research, development or commercialization of drug candidates, might lead to additional responsibilities or costs for us with respect to drug candidates, or might result in litigation or arbitration. Any such disagreements would divert management attention and resources and would be time-consuming and expensive. •    Collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our intellectual property or proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation. •    Collaborators may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may expose us to litigation and potential liability. •    Investigations and/or compliance or enforcement actions against a collaborator, which may expose us to indirect liability as a result of our partnership with such collaborator. •    Our collaboration agreements are subject to termination under various circumstances. Additionally, if a collaborator were to be involved in a business combination with a third party, it might de-emphasize or terminate the development or commercialization of any drug candidate licensed to it by us. If one of our collaborators terminates its agreement with us, we may find it more difficult to attract new collaborators and our perception in the business and financial communities could be harmed. We may not be able to attract collaborators or external funding for the development and commercialization of certain of our drug candidates. As part of our ongoing strategy, we may seek additional collaborative arrangements or external funding for certain of our development programs and/or seek to expand existing collaborations to cover additional commercialization and/or development activities. We have a number of research programs and clinical development programs, some of which are being developed in collaboration with a third party. For example, we are co-developing CTX001, an investigational CRISPR/Cas9-based gene-editing therapy for SCD and TDT with our collaborator, CRISPR. At any time, we may determine that in order to continue development of a drug candidate or program or successfully commercialize a drug we need to identify a collaborator or amend or expand an existing collaboration. Whether we reach a definitive agreement for a collaboration will depend, among other things, upon our assessment of the collaborator’s resources and expertise, the terms and conditions of the proposed collaboration and the proposed collaborator’s evaluation of a number of factors. Those factors may include the design or results of clinical trials, the likelihood of approval by the FDA, EMA or other regulatory authorities, the potential market for the subject drug candidate, the costs and complexities of manufacturing and delivering such drug candidate to patients, the potential of competing products, the existence of uncertainty with respect to our ownership of the applicable intellectual property, which can exist if there is a challenge to such ownership without regard to the merits of the challenge, and industry and market conditions generally. Potentially, and depending on the circumstances, we may desire that a collaborator either agree to fund portions of a drug development program led by us, or agree to provide all of the funding and directly lead the development and commercialization of a program. No assurance can be given that any efforts we make to seek additional collaborative arrangements will be successfully completed on a timely basis or at all. If we elect to fund and undertake development or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional expertise and additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to enter into acceptable collaborative relationships, one or more of our development programs could be delayed or terminated and the possibility of our receiving a return on our investment in the program could be impaired. 41 Risks Related to Third-Party Manufacturing and Reliance on Third Parties We depend on third-party manufacturers to manufacture our products and the materials we require for our clinical trials. We may not be able to maintain these relationships and could experience supply disruptions outside of our control. We rely on a worldwide network of third-party manufacturers to manufacture our drugs for commercial use and our drug candidates for clinical trials. As a result of our reliance on these third-party manufacturers and suppliers, we could be subject to significant supply disruptions outside of our control. Our supply chain for sourcing raw materials and manufacturing drug product ready for distribution is a multi-step international endeavor. Third-party contract manufacturers, including some in China, perform different parts of our manufacturing process. Contract manufacturers may supply us with raw materials, convert these raw materials into drug substance and/or convert the drug substance into final dosage form. Third parties are used for packaging, warehousing and distribution of products. In cell and genetic therapies, third parties also will be used to both manufacture and deliver our therapies, which requires significant expertise. Establishing, managing and expanding this global supply chain requires a significant financial commitment and the creation and maintenance of numerous third-party contractual relationships. Although we attempt to manage the business relationships with companies in our supply chain, we could be subject to supply disruptions outside of our control. For example, we are collaborating with CRISPR on establishing the supply chain to support clinical trials and commercial supply for CTX001, if approved. As a result, we do not have independent control over the related supply operations and are reliant on CRISPR to adequately establish the corresponding supply chains. Supply disruptions may result from a number of factors, including shortages in product raw materials, labor or technical difficulties, regulatory inspections or restrictions, shipping or customs delays or any other performance failure by any third-party manufacturer on which we rely. Any supply disruptions could disrupt sales of our products and/or the timing of our clinical trials. We require a supply for our medicines for commercial sale and a supply of our drug candidates for use in our clinical trials. While we have developed some internal capabilities, a majority of the manufacturing steps needed to produce our drug candidates and drug products are performed through a third-party manufacturing network. To ensure the stability of our supply chains, we aim to develop additional sources of manufacture for all steps of our manufacturing processes at the time of, or shortly after, marketing approval. Therefore, at any point in time, we may have a limited number of single source manufacturers for certain steps in our manufacturing processes, particularly for recently launched products. If we or our third-party manufacturers become unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing product and we are not able to promptly identify another manufacturer, we could experience a disruption in the commercial supply of our then-marketed medicines, which would have a significant effect on patients, our business and our product revenues. Similarly, a disruption in the clinical supply of drug products could delay the completion of clinical trials and affect timelines for regulatory filings. There can be no assurance that we will be able to establish and maintain additional manufacturers for all of our drug candidates and drug products on a timely basis or at all. In the course of providing its services, a contract manufacturer may develop process technology related to the manufacture of our products or drug candidates that the manufacturer owns, either independently or jointly with us. This would increase our reliance on that manufacturer or require us to obtain a license from that manufacturer in order to have our products or drug candidates manufactured by other suppliers utilizing the same process. We rely on third parties to conduct pre-clinical work, clinical trials and other activities, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such studies and/or trials or failing to satisfy regulatory requirements. We rely on third parties such as contract research organizations to help manage certain pre-clinical work and our clinical trials and on medical institutions, clinical investigators and clinical research organizations such as the Therapeutic Development Network, which is primarily funded by the CFF, to assist in the design and review of, and to conduct our clinical trials, including enrolling qualified patients. In addition, we engage third party contractors to support numerous other research, commercial and administrative activities. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities but does not relieve us of our responsibilities. For example, we remain responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the clinical trial. Moreover, the FDA requires us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as good laboratory practices 42 and good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of pre-clinical and clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. Such standards, particularly with respect to newer cell and genetic therapies, will continue to evolve and subject us and third parties to new or changing requirements. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be required to replace them. Although we believe that there are a number of other third-party contractors we could engage to continue the activities, it may result in a delay of the affected clinical trial, drug development program or applicable activity. If clinical trials are not conducted in accordance with our contractual expectations or regulatory requirements, action by regulatory authorities might significantly and adversely affect the conduct or progress of these clinical trials or in specific circumstances might result in a requirement that a clinical trial be redone. Accordingly, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our drug candidates could be delayed. In addition, failure of any third party contractor to conduct activities in accordance with our expectations could adversely affect the relevant research, development, commercial or administrative activity. Risks Related to Intellectual Property If our patents do not protect our drugs or our drugs infringe third-party patents, we could be subject to litigation which could result in injunctions preventing us from selling our products or substantial liabilities. We have numerous issued patents and pending patent applications in the U.S., as well as counterparts in other countries. Our success will depend, in significant part, on our ability to obtain and defend U.S. and foreign patents covering our drugs, their uses and our processes, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We cannot be certain that any patents will issue from our pending patent applications or, even if patents issue or have issued, that the issued claims will provide us with adequate protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable. Due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, our ability to obtain, maintain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Recent patent reform legislation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents in the U.S. The Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy-Smith Act, includes a number of significant changes to U.S. patent law. These include provisions that affect the way patent applications are prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. The U.S. Patent Office developed new regulations and procedures to govern administration of the Leahy-Smith Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act, and in particular, the first to file provisions, became effective in March 2013. The first to file provisions limit the rights of an inventor who is the first to invent an invention but is not the first to file an application claiming that invention. U.S. and foreign patent applications typically are maintained in confidence for a period of time after they initially are filed with the applicable patent office. Consequently, we cannot be certain that we were the first to invent, or the first to file patent applications on, our products or drug candidates or their use. If a third party also has filed a U.S. patent application relating to our drugs or drug candidates, their uses, or a similar invention, we may have to participate in legal or administrative proceedings to determine priority of invention. For applications governed by the Leahy-Smith Act, if a third-party has an earlier filed U.S. patent application relating to our drugs or drug candidates, their uses, or a similar invention, we may be unable to obtain an issued patent from our application. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its inventorship, scope, validity or enforceability. Our patents may be challenged by third parties and certain of our patents have been challenged in the past. This could result in the patent being deemed invalid, unenforceable or narrowed in scope, or the third party may circumvent any such issued patents. Also, our pending patent applications may not issue, and we may not receive any additional patents. Our patents or patents we license might not contain claims that are sufficiently broad to prevent others from developing competing products. For instance, issued patents, or patents that may issue in the future, (i) relating to our small molecules may be limited to a particular molecule or molecules and may not cover similar molecules that have similar clinical properties, and (ii) relating to cell or genetic therapies may not cover similar technologies that would allow competitors to achieve similar results. Consequently, our competitors may independently develop competing products that do not infringe our patents or other intellectual property. In addition, CRISPR only has non-exclusive or co-exclusive rights to the patent rights that protect the core CRISPR/Cas9 gene-editing technology. 43 The laws of many foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the U.S. and many companies in our segment of the pharmaceutical industry have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. If we encounter such difficulties in protecting or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business could be substantially harmed. Because of the extensive time required for the discovery, development, testing and regulatory review of drug candidates, it is possible that a patent may expire before a drug candidate can be commercialized, or a patent may expire or remain in effect for only a short period following commercialization of such drug candidate. This would result in a minimal or non-existent period of patent exclusivity. If our drug candidates are not commercialized significantly ahead of the expiration date of any applicable patent, or if we have no patent protection on such drug candidates, then, to the extent available we would rely on other forms of exclusivity, such as regulatory exclusivity provided by the FDCA and its counterpart agencies in various jurisdictions, and/or orphan drug exclusivity. Uncertainty over intellectual property in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry has been the source of litigation and other disputes, which is inherently costly and unpredictable. There is considerable uncertainty within our industry about the validity, scope and enforceability of many issued patents in the U.S. and elsewhere in the world, and, to date, the law and practice remains in substantial flux both in the agencies that grant patents and in the courts. We cannot currently determine the ultimate scope and validity of patents which may be granted to third parties in the future or which patents might be asserted as being infringed by the manufacture, use and sale of our products. There has been, and we expect that there may continue to be, significant litigation in the pharmaceutical industry regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Litigation, arbitrations, administrative proceedings and other legal actions with private parties and governmental authorities concerning patents and other intellectual property rights may be protracted, expensive and distracting to management. Competitors may sue us as a way of delaying the introduction of our drugs or to remove our drugs from the market. Any litigation, including litigation related to Abbreviated New Drug Applications, or ANDA, litigation related to 505(b)(2) applications, interference proceedings to determine priority of inventions, derivations proceedings, inter partes review, oppositions to patents in foreign countries, litigation against our collaborators or similar actions, may be costly and time consuming and could harm our business. We expect that litigation may be necessary in some instances to determine the validity and scope of certain of our proprietary rights. Litigation may be necessary in other instances to determine the validity, scope or non-infringement of certain patent rights claimed by third parties to be pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our products. Ultimately, the outcome of such litigation could adversely affect the validity and scope of our patent or other proprietary rights, hinder our ability to manufacture and market our products, or result in the assessment of significant monetary damages against us that may exceed amounts, if any, accrued in our consolidated financial statements. On July 24, 2020, we filed a lawsuit against Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Limited, or Sun, in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No. 10,646,481, or the ’481 patent. The lawsuit follows Vertex’s receipt of a Notice Letter on June 11, 2020, advising that Sun had submitted an ANDA to the FDA seeking approval to manufacture and market a generic version of the 150 mg tablet of KALYDECO in the U.S. The Notice Letter indicated that Sun submitted a “Paragraph IV” certification to the FDA in which Sun asserted that the ’481 patent is invalid or would not be infringed by Sun’s generic product. The ’481 patent, which expires in 2029, was issued on May 12, 2020, and listed in the Orange Book with respect to KALYDECO 150 mg tablets on June 1, 2020. Sun does not appear to challenge our other U.S. patents covering KALYDECO. Vertex intends to vigorously enforce its intellectual property rights relating to KALYDECO, including the ’481 patent. CRISPR has licensed certain rights to a worldwide patent portfolio that covers various aspects of the CRISPR/Cas9 editing platform technology including, for example, compositions of matter and methods of use, including their use in targeting or cutting DNA from Dr. Charpentier, one of the named inventors of this patent portfolio. The patent portfolio also has named inventors who assigned their rights either to the Regents of the University of California or the University of Vienna, to whom we refer, together with Dr. Charpentier, as the CVC Group. For example, in connection with their collaboration, Novartis and Intellia Therapeutics, Inc. have obtained a license to this patent portfolio in certain fields. Patents and patent applications in this patent portfolio have been the subject of numerous contentious proceedings in the U.S., Europe, and other jurisdictions, including interference proceedings between the CVC and the Broad Institute in the USPTO. Decisions rendered to date in these proceedings may be subject to appeal. To date, both the CVC and the Broad have obtained granted patents that purport to cover aspects of CRISPR/Cas9 editing platform technology. The patents and patent 44 applications within the CVC patent portfolio and the Broad patent portfolio are, or may in the future be, involved in proceedings similar to interferences or priority disputes in Europe or other foreign jurisdictions. We can give no assurances to the ultimate outcome of these proceedings or the dispute between the CVC Group and Broad. In addition to the Broad, other third parties have filed patent applications claiming CRISPR/Cas9-related inventions and may allege that they invented one or more of the inventions claimed by the CVC Group. Thus, the USPTO may, in the future, declare an interference between certain CVC Group patent applications and one or more patent applications. The Broad, as well as other third parties, could seek to assert its issued patents against us based on our CRISPR/Cas9-based activities, including commercialization. Defense of these claims, regardless of their merit, could involve substantial litigation expense and could result in a substantial diversion of management and other employee resources from our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may have to pay substantial damages, obtain one or more licenses from third parties, pay royalties or redesign our infringing products, which may be impossible or require substantial time and monetary expenditure. In that event, we could be unable to further develop and commercialize CTX001 or other products that we may develop using the CRISPR/Cas9 technology we license from CRISPR. To the extent that valid present or future third-party patents or other intellectual property rights cover our drugs, drug candidates or technologies, we or our strategic collaborators may seek licenses or other agreements from the holders of such rights in order to avoid or settle legal claims. Such licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, which may hinder our ability to, or prevent us from being able to, manufacture and market our drugs. Payments under any licenses that we are able to obtain would reduce our profits derived from the covered products. We may be subject to claims by third parties asserting that our employees or we have misappropriated their intellectual property, or claiming ownership of what we regard as our own intellectual property. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although we try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of any such employee’s former employer. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. In addition, while it is our policy to require our employees and contractors who may be involved in the development of intellectual property to execute agreements assigning such intellectual property to us, we may be unsuccessful in executing such an agreement with each party who in fact develops intellectual property that we regard as our own. Our and their assignment agreements may not be self-executing or may be breached, and we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property. If we fail in prosecuting or defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Even if we are successful in prosecuting or defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Risks Related To Our Operations Risks associated with operating in foreign countries could materially adversely affect our business. We have expanded our international operations over the past several years in order to market our CF medicines and expand our research and development capabilities. New laws and industry codes in the E.U. and elsewhere have expanded transparency requirements regarding payments and transfers of value to healthcare professionals, requirements surrounding patient-level clinical trial data, the protection of personal data and increased sanctions for violations. Collectively, our expansion and these new requirements are adding to our compliance costs and potentially exposes us to sanctions in the event of an infringement or failure to report in these jurisdictions. In addition, a significant portion of our commercial supply chain, including sourcing of raw materials and manufacturing, is located in China and the E.U. Consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries, including risks relating to intellectual property protections and business interruptions. These risks are increased with respect to countries such as China that have substantially different local laws and business practices and weaker protections for intellectual property. Risks associated with operating a global biotechnology company include: •    differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals and regulation of approved drugs in foreign countries; 45 •    varying reimbursement regimes and difficulties or the inability to obtain reimbursement for our products in foreign countries in a timely manner; •    differing patient treatment infrastructures, particularly since our business is focused on the treatment of serious diseases that affect relatively smaller numbers of patients and are typically prescribed by specialist physicians; •    collectability of accounts receivable; •    changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements, the risks of which appear to have increased in the current political environment; •    economic weakness, including recession and inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; •    differing levels of enforcement and/or recognition of contractual and intellectual property rights; •    complying with local laws and regulations, which can change significantly over time; •    foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes; •    foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in reduced revenues or increased operating expenses, and other obligations incident to doing business or operating in another country; •    workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the U.S.; •    reliance on third-party vendors and suppliers; •    import and export licensing requirements, tariffs, and other trade and travel restrictions; •    global or regional public health emergencies that could affect our operations or business; •    production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and •    business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism. Our revenues are subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations due to the global nature of our operations. Although we have foreign currency forward contracts to hedge forecasted product revenues denominated in foreign currencies, our efforts to reduce currency exchange losses may not be successful. As a result, currency fluctuations among our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar, and the currencies in which we do business will affect our operating results, often in unpredictable ways. In addition, our international operations are subject to regulation under U.S. law. For example, the FCPA prohibits U.S. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad. In many countries, the health care professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition of a foreign government official for purposes of the FCPA. We also are subject to import/export control laws. Failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including the possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls, seizures, withdrawal of an approved product from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions, the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations and corresponding bad publicity and negative perception of our company in foreign countries. We are subject to risks associated with the global COVID-19 pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has broadly affected the global economy, resulted in significant travel and work restrictions in many regions and has put a significant strain on healthcare resources. COVID-19 has had, and we expect it will continue to have, an impact on our operations, an impact on the operations of our collaborators, third-party contractors and other entities, including governments, governmental agencies and payors, with which we interact, and an impact on the people with CF who take our medicines. To date, the most significant effect on our business operations has been the requirement that a majority of our employees work remotely. We have re-initiated enrollment and dosing in all of our ongoing clinical trials and initiated new clinical trials despite some temporary pauses to enrollment and dosing early in the pandemic. 46 We continue to monitor local COVID-19 trends and government guidance for each of our site locations and are utilizing a phased, site-specific approach to assess employee access to our sites. Currently, all of our research and manufacturing sites are open to essential employees. There can be no assurance that our sites will remain open, when additional employees will gain access to our sites or whether we will be required to pause enrollment and dosing at clinical trial sites. Any site closure or pause of a clinical trial could harm our operations and delay the development of our product candidates. In addition, even if sites or clinical trials are open for enrollment, COVID-19 may nevertheless impact clinical trial enrollment or participation, for example due to suspension of in-person procedures required for enrollment, government shut-down orders, or decreased patient willingness to participate compared to pre-COVID-19 pandemic levels. COVID-19 may also impact uptake of our medicines generally and patient retention in clinical trials, potentially resulting in higher drop-out rates or missed visits, which may negatively affect the strength of our clinical trial data. In the future, the economic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic could affect our business directly or indirectly, including potentially affecting the net prices for our products through changes in our payor mix as a result of increased unemployment in the U.S. or increased pressure on healthcare costs in the U.S. and around the world. The effects on our research, development, manufacturing and commercialization activities, including the virtual launch of KAFTRIO in the E.U., will be dependent on, among other things, the severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and any worsening of the global economic environment as a result thereof, as well as the impact of the pandemic on our third-party manufacturers, suppliers, distributors, subcontractors and customers. While the ultimate impact of COVID-19 on our business is highly uncertain, any negative impacts that materialize could materially adversely affect our operations, financial performance and stock price. Any negative impacts of COVID-19, alone or in combination with others, could exacerbate other risk factors discussed herein. The full extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will negatively affect our operations, financial performance and stock price will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope and duration of the pandemic and actions taken by governmental authorities and other third parties in response to the pandemic. If we fail to manage our operations effectively, our business may suffer. We have expanded and are continuing to expand our global operations and capabilities, which has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational, research and development and financial infrastructure. To effectively manage our business, we need to: • implement and clearly communicate our corporate-wide strategies; • enhance our operational and financial infrastructure, including our controls over records and information; • enhance our operational, financial and management processes, including our cross-functional decision-making processes and our budget prioritization systems; • train and manage our global employee base; and • enhance our compliance and legal resources. If we fail to attract and retain skilled employees, our business could be materially harmed. Due to the highly technical nature of our drug discovery and development activities, we require the services of highly qualified and trained scientists who have the skills necessary to conduct these activities. In addition, we need to attract and retain employees with experience in marketing and commercialization of medicines. We have entered into employment agreements with some executives and provide stock-related compensation benefits to all of our key employees that vest over time and therefore induce them to remain with us. However, the employment agreements can be terminated by the executive on relatively short notice. The value to employees of stock-related benefits that vest over time - such as restricted stock units and stock options - can be significantly affected by movements in our stock price, and may, at any point in time, be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. We face intense competition for our personnel from our competitors and other companies throughout our industry, especially with respect to employees with expertise in cell or genetic therapies. We also experience competition for the hiring of scientific and clinical personnel from universities and research institutions. Moreover, the growth of local biotechnology companies and the expansion of major pharmaceutical companies into the Boston area has increased competition for the available pool of skilled employees, especially in technical fields. The high cost of living can make it difficult to attract employees from other parts of the country to our Massachusetts headquarters. In addition, the available pool of skilled employees would be further reduced if immigration laws change in a manner that increases restrictions on immigration. Our ability to continue to commercialize our products and achieve our 47 research and development objectives depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified personnel, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. Our business faces potential risks relating to the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European Union. Our European headquarters and European research facility are located in the U.K., and a significant portion of our ex-U.S. net product revenues are derived from sales in the U.K. On January 31, 2020, the U.K. formally withdrew from the E.U., also known as Brexit. The U.K. and the E.U. negotiated a detailed post-Brexit Trade and Cooperating Agreement which went into effect on January 1, 2021. As of January 1, 2021, E.U. Treaties, E.U. free movement rights and the general principals of E.U. law no longer apply in relation to the U.K. By virtue of the E.U. (Withdrawal) Act 2018, E.U. relations will continue to apply in U.K. domestic law to the extent that they are not modified of revoked by regulations under that Act. Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate. Given the lack of comparable precedent, it is unclear what financial, trade, regulatory and legal implications the withdrawal of the U.K. from the E.U. would have and how such withdrawal would affect us. Any of these effects of Brexit, among others, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our business has a substantial risk of product liability claims and other litigation liability. We are or may be involved in various legal proceedings, including securities/shareholder matters and claims related to product liability, intellectual property and breach of contract. Such proceedings may involve claims for, or the possibility of, damages or fines and penalties involving substantial amounts of money or other relief, including but not limited to civil or criminal fines and penalties. If any of these legal proceedings were to result in an adverse outcome, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. With respect to product liability and clinical trial risks, in the ordinary course of business we are subject to liability claims and lawsuits, including potential class actions, alleging that our products or drug candidates have caused, or could cause, serious adverse events or other injury. We have product liability insurance and clinical trial insurance in amounts that we believe are adequate to cover this risk. However, our insurance may not provide adequate coverage against all potential liabilities. If a claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as pay uncovered damage awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us and these damages could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending any such claims, we might be required to direct significant financial and managerial resources to such defense and adverse publicity is likely to result. A breakdown or breach of our information technology systems could subject us to liability or interrupt the operation of our business. We maintain and rely extensively on information technology systems and network infrastructures for the effective operation of our business. In the course of our business, we collect, store and transmit confidential information (including personal information and intellectual property), and it is critical that we do so in a secure manner to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. The size and complexity of our information technology and information security systems makes such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions and to security breaches. A disruption, infiltration or failure of our information technology systems or any of our data centers as a result of software or hardware malfunctions, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, employee theft or misuse, power disruptions, natural disasters, floods or accidents could cause breaches of data security and loss of critical data, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business and subject us to both private and governmental causes of action. While we have implemented security measures in an attempt to minimize these risks to our data and information technology systems and have adopted a business continuity plan to deal with a disruption to our information technology systems, cyber-attacks are increasing in their frequency, sophistication and intensity, and have become increasingly difficult to detect. There can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our data and information systems will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. In addition, our liability insurance may not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyber-attacks or other related liabilities. Risk of cyber-attack is increased with the majority of employees working remotely during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. During this time, there is an increased risk that we may be vulnerable to cybersecurity-related events such as phishing attacks and other security threats as a result of our employees, third party vendors and collaborators working remotely from non-corporate managed networks. 48 If our facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, our operations would be seriously harmed. Most of our operations, including our research and development activities, are conducted in a limited number of facilities. If any of our major facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, due to an earthquake, severe storms, fire or similar event, our operations could be seriously harmed. For example, our corporate headquarters, as well as additional leased space that we use for certain logistical and laboratory operations and manufacturing, are located in a flood zone along the Massachusetts coast. We have adopted a business continuity plan to address most crises. However, if we are unable to fully implement our business continuity plans, we may experience delays in recovery of data and/or an inability to perform vital corporate functions, which could result in a significant disruption in our research, development, manufacturing and/or commercial activities, large expenses to repair or replace the facility and/or the loss of critical data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The use of social media platforms presents risks and challenges. Social media is being used by third parties to communicate about our products and drug candidates and the diseases our therapies are designed to treat. We believe that members of the CF community may be more active on social media as compared to other patient populations due to the demographics of this patient population. Social media practices in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are evolving, which creates uncertainty and risk of noncompliance with regulations applicable to our business. For example, patients may use social media platforms to comment on the effectiveness of, or adverse experiences with, a drug or a drug candidate, which could result in reporting obligations. In addition, our employees may engage on social media in ways that may not comply with legal or regulatory requirements, which may give rise to liability, lead to the loss of trade secrets and other intellectual property, or result in public disclosure of protected personal information. There is a risk of inappropriate disclosure of sensitive information or negative or inaccurate posts or comments about us on any social networking website. Certain data protection regulations, such as the GDPR, apply to personal data contained on social media. If any of these events were to occur or we otherwise fail to comply with applicable regulations, we could incur liability, face regulatory actions or incur harm to our business, including damage to our reputation. Risks Related to Financial Results and Holding Our Common Stock Our stock price may fluctuate. Market prices for securities of companies such as ours are highly volatile. From January 1, 2020 to December 31, 2020, our common stock traded between $197.47 and $306.08 per share. The market for our stock, like that of other companies in the biotechnology industry, has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. The future market price of our securities could be significantly and adversely affected by factors such as: •    the information contained in our quarterly earnings releases, including our net product revenues and operating expenses for completed periods and guidance regarding future periods; •    announcements of FDA actions with respect to our therapies or those of our competitors, or regulatory filings for our therapies or those of our competitors, or announcements of interim or final results of clinical trials or nonclinical studies relating to our therapies or those of our competitors; • developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulation, for example, relating to drug pricing or intellectual property rights; • technological innovations or the introduction of new drugs by our competitors; •    government regulatory action; •    public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by us or our competitors; •    developments in patent or other intellectual property rights or announcements relating to these matters; • information disclosed by third parties regarding our business or products; •    developments relating specifically to other companies and market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks or stocks in general; 49 •    business development, capital structuring or financing activities; and •    general worldwide or national economic, political and capital market conditions, including as a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholder derivative lawsuits and securities class action litigation are common. Such litigation, if instituted against us or our officers and directors, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuation. Our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future. Our revenues are primarily dependent on the level of net product revenues from sales of our CF medicines. Our total net product revenues could vary on a quarterly basis based on, among other factors, the timing of orders from our significant customers. Additional factors that have caused quarterly fluctuations to our operating results in recent years include variable amounts of revenues, expenses related to business development activities, changes in the fair value of our strategic investments, impairment charges, charges for excess and obsolete inventories, changes in the fair value of derivative instruments and the consolidation or deconsolidation of variable interest entities. Our revenues also are subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations due to the global nature of our operations. Although we have foreign currency forward contracts to hedge forecasted product revenues denominated in foreign currencies, our efforts to reduce currency exchange losses may not be successful. As a result, currency fluctuations among our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar, and the currencies in which we do business may affect our operating results, often in unpredictable ways. Our quarterly results also could be materially affected by significant charges, which may or may not be similar to charges we have experienced in the past. Most of our operating expenses relate to our research and development activities, do not vary directly with the amount of revenues and are difficult to adjust in the short term. As a result, if revenues in a particular quarter are below expectations, we are unlikely to reduce operating expenses proportionately for that quarter. These examples are only illustrative and other risks, including those discussed in these “Risk Factors,” could also cause fluctuations in our reported financial results. Our operating results during any one period do not necessarily suggest the results of future periods. We expect that results from our clinical development activities and the clinical development activities of our competitors will continue to be released periodically, and may result in significant volatility in the price of our common stock. Any new information regarding our products and drug candidates or competitive products or potentially competitive drug candidates can substantially affect investors’ perceptions regarding our future prospects. We, our collaborators and our competitors periodically provide updates regarding drug development programs, typically through press releases, conference calls and presentations at medical conferences. These periodic updates often include interim or final results from clinical trials conducted by us or our competitors and/or information about our or our competitors’ expectations regarding regulatory filings and submissions as well as future clinical development of our products or drug candidates, competitive products or potentially competitive drug candidates. The timing of the release of information by us regarding our drug development programs is often beyond our control and is influenced by the timing of receipt of data from our clinical trials and by the general preference among pharmaceutical companies to disclose clinical data during medical conferences. In addition, the information disclosed about our clinical trials, or our competitors’ clinical trials, may be based on interim rather than final data that may involve interpretation difficulties and may in any event not accurately predict final results. The release of such information may result in volatility in the price of our common stock. Changes in tax laws, regulations and treaties could affect our future taxable income. We are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. As a result, our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various places that we operate globally. Our effective tax rate may be different than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including changes in the mix of our profitability from country to country, the results of tax authority examinations/audits of our tax filings, adjustments to the value of our uncertain tax positions, changes in accounting for income taxes and changes in tax laws or modifications of treaties in various jurisdictions. For example, changes to the U.S. tax code are anticipated under the new administration. Any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate that is significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations. 50 We continue to assess the impact of various tax reform proposals and modifications to existing tax treaties in all jurisdictions where we have operations to determine the potential effect on our business and any assumptions we have made about our future taxable income. We cannot predict whether any specific proposals will be enacted, the terms of any such proposals or what effect, if any, such proposals would have on our business if they were to be enacted. Recommendations from the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development that are part of the base erosion and profit shifting, or BEPS, framework could result in changes in tax laws in countries where we do business and adversely affect our provision for income taxes and our current rate. If these recommendations (or other changes in law) were adopted by the countries in which we do business, it could adversely affect our provision for income tax and our current rate. General Risk Factors We may need to raise additional capital that may not be available. We may need to raise additional capital in the future. Any potential public offering, private placement or debt financing may or may not be similar to the transactions that we entered into in the past. Any debt financing may be on terms that, among other things, include conversion features that could result in dilution to our then-existing security holders and restrict our ability to pay interest and dividends—although we do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. Any equity financings would result in dilution to our then-existing security holders. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be required to curtail significantly or discontinue one or more of our research, drug discovery or development programs, including clinical trials, incur significant cash exit costs, or attempt to obtain funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, drugs or drug candidates. Based on many factors, including general economic conditions, additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Future indebtedness could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, and the terms of our credit agreements impose restrictions on our business, reducing our operational flexibility and creating default risks. In 2019, we entered into a credit agreement providing for a $500 million revolving facility. In September 2020, we entered into a second credit agreement providing for a $2.0 billion revolving facility. Each of the credit agreements provides that, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, we may request the borrowing capacity be increased by an additional $500.0 million. If we borrow under our current credit agreements or any future credit agreement, such indebtedness could have important consequences to our business, including increasing our vulnerability to general adverse financial, business, economic and industry conditions, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. The credit agreements require that we comply with certain financial covenants, including (i) a consolidated leverage ratio covenant and (ii) a consolidated interest coverage ratio covenant, in each case to be measured on a quarterly basis. Further, the credit agreements include negative covenants, subject to exceptions, restricting or limiting our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, grant liens, engage in certain investment, acquisition and disposition transactions, pay dividends, repurchase capital stock and enter into transactions with affiliates. As a result, we may be restricted from engaging in business activities that may otherwise improve our business. Failure to comply with the covenants could result in an event of default that could trigger acceleration of our indebtedness, which would require us to repay all amounts owing under the credit agreements and/or our finance leases and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, our obligations under the credit agreements are unconditionally guaranteed by certain of our domestic subsidiaries. Issuances of additional shares of our common stock could cause the price of our common stock to decline. As of December 31, 2020, we had 259.9 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. As of December 31, 2020, we also had outstanding options to purchase 4.2 million shares of common stock with a weighted-average exercise price of $140.47 per share. Outstanding vested options are likely to be exercised if the market price of our common stock exceeds the applicable exercise price, and, in the future, we expect to issue additional equity awards to directors and employees. In addition, we may issue additional common stock or restricted securities in the future as part of financing activities or business development activities and any such issuances may have a dilutive effect on our then-existing shareholders. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The issuance of restricted common stock or common stock upon exercise of any outstanding options would be dilutive, and may cause the market price for a share of our common stock to decline. 51 There can be no assurance that we will repurchase shares of common stock or that we will repurchase shares at favorable prices. In November 2020, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program pursuant to which we are authorized to repurchase up to $500 million of our common stock by December 31, 2022. As of December 31, 2020, we had repurchased $75.1 million of common stock under the share repurchase program and had remaining available $424.9 million to repurchase additional shares pursuant to this program. Our stock repurchases will depend upon, among other factors, our cash balances and potential future capital requirements, results of operations, financial condition and other factors that we may deem relevant. We can provide no assurance that we will repurchase stock at favorable prices, if at all. We have adopted anti-takeover provisions and are subject to Massachusetts corporate laws that may frustrate any attempt to remove or replace our current management or effectuate a business combination involving Vertex. Our corporate charter and by-law provisions and Massachusetts state laws may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change of control of Vertex that might be beneficial to us or our security holders. Our by-laws grant the directors a right to adjourn annual meetings of shareholders, and certain provisions of our by-laws may be amended only with an 80% shareholder vote. We may issue shares of any class or series of preferred stock in the future without shareholder approval and upon such terms as our Board of Directors may determine. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Massachusetts state law prohibits us from engaging in specified business combinations, unless the combination is approved or consummated in a prescribed manner, and prohibits voting by any shareholder who acquires 20% or more of our voting stock without shareholder approval. As a result, shareholders or other parties may find it more difficult to remove or replace our current management. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the descriptions of our Business set forth in Part I, Item 1, our Risk Factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A, and our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in Part II, Item 7, contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not purely historical and may be accompanied by words such as “anticipates,” “may,” “forecasts,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “potentially,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” and other words and terms of similar meaning. Such statements may relate to: •    our expectations regarding the amount of, timing of, and trends with respect to our financial performance, including revenues, costs and expenses and other gains and losses; •    our expectations regarding clinical trials, including expectations for patient enrollment, development timelines, the expected timing of data from our ongoing and planned clinical trials, and regulatory authority filings and submissions for our therapies; •    our ability to obtain reimbursement for our medicines in ex-U.S. markets and our ability to launch, commercialize and market our medicines or any of our other therapies for which we obtain regulatory approval; •    the data that will be generated by ongoing and planned clinical trials and the ability to use that data to advance compounds, continue development or support regulatory filings; •    our beliefs regarding the support provided by clinical trials and preclinical and nonclinical studies of our therapies for further investigation, clinical trials or potential use as a treatment; •    our plans to continue investing in our research and development programs, including anticipated timelines for our programs, and our strategy to develop our pipeline programs, alone or with third party-collaborators; • our beliefs regarding the approximate patient populations for each of our disease areas; •    the potential benefits and therapeutic scope of our acquisitions and collaborations; •    the establishment, development and maintenance of collaborative relationships, including potential milestone payments or other obligations; 52 •    potential business development activities, including the identification of potential collaborative partners or acquisition targets; •    potential fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; •    our expectations regarding our provision for or benefit from income taxes and the utilization of our deferred tax assets, including the impact of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act; •    our ability to use our research programs to identify and develop new drug candidates to address serious diseases and significant unmet medical needs; •    our plans to expand, strengthen, and invest in our global supply chains and manufacturing infrastructure and capabilities; •    our expectations regarding the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on, among other things, our financial performance, liquidity, business and operations, including manufacturing, supply chain, research and development activities and pipeline programs; and •    our liquidity and our expectations regarding the possibility of raising additional capital. Forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties, or other factors that are difficult to predict and could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated in any such statements. These risks, uncertainties, and other factors include, but are not limited to, those described in our Risk Factors, set forth in Part I, Item 1A, and elsewhere in this report and those described from time to time in our future reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any such forward-looking statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of the date of the filing and are not estimates of future performance. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements. The reader is cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such statements.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

OVERVIEW We invest in scientific innovation to create transformative medicines for people with serious diseases with a focus on specialty markets. We have four approved medicines to treat cystic fibrosis, or CF, a life-threatening genetic disease, and we are focused on increasing the number of patients eligible and able to receive our current medicines through label expansions, approval of new medicines and expanded reimbursement. We are broadening our pipeline into additional disease areas through internal research efforts and accessing external innovation through business development transactions. Our triple combination regimen, TRIKAFTA/KAFTRIO, was approved in 2019 in the United States, or U.S., and in 2020 in the European Union, or E.U. Collectively, our four medicines are approved to treat the majority of the approximately 83,000 people with CF in North America, Europe and Australia. We are evaluating our medicines, including our triple combination regimen, in additional patient populations, including younger children, with the goal of having small molecule treatments for up to 90% of people with CF. We are also pursuing genetic therapies to address the remaining 10% of people with CF. Beyond CF, our small molecule programs include programs focused on developing treatments for alpha-1 antitrypsin, or AAT, deficiency, APOL1-mediated kidney diseases and pain. We are also focused on developing cell and genetic therapies for various diseases in our pipeline. We are evaluating CTX001, a genetic therapy, as a potential treatment for sickle cell disease, or SCD, and transfusion-dependent beta thalassemia, or TDT, in Phase 1/2 clinical trials in collaboration with CRISPR Therapeutics AG, or CRISPR. In T1D, we are pursuing two programs for the transplant of functional islets into patients: transplantation of islet cells alone, using immunosuppression to protect the implanted cells, and implantation of the islet cells inside a novel immunoprotective device. In 2020, we continued to advance our cell and genetic therapy pipeline programs through internal research efforts and investing in business development transactions to access emerging technologies. Financial Highlights Revenues In 2020, our net product revenues continued to increase due to the approval of TRIKAFTA in late 2019 and uptake of our medicines in ex-U.S. markets following the approval of KAFTRIO and completion of several significant reimbursement agreements. Expenses Our total R&D and SG&A expenses increased from $2.41 billion in 2019 to $2.60 billion in 2020. In 2020, cost of sales was approximately 12% of our net product revenues. 58 Business Updates Cystic Fibrosis We expect to continue to grow our CF business through increasing the number of people with CF eligible and able to receive our medicines and providing improved treatment options for people who are already eligible for one of our medicines. Since the beginning of 2020, we have made important progress in activities supporting these efforts. • In August, the European Commission granted marketing authorization for KAFTRIO to treat people with CF 12 years of age and older with one F508del mutation and one minimal function mutation, or two F508del mutations. • The FDA expanded the eligibility for TRIKAFTA to include people with CF 12 years of age and older with certain mutations that are responsive to TRIKAFTA based on in vitro data. SYMDEKO and KALYDECO also received approvals to include additional responsive mutations in people with CF 6 years of age and older and 4 months of age and older, respectively. • In January 2021, the FDA accepted our supplemental New Drug Application, or sNDA, for TRIKAFTA for the treatment of children with CF 6 to 11 years of age with at least one F508del mutation or have certain mutations that are responsive to TRIKAFTA based on in vitro data. The FDA granted Priority Review of the sNDA. • The European Commission approved the label extension of SYMKEVI in combination with KALYDECO for the treatment of children with CF 6 years of age and older with two F508del mutations or one F508del mutation and certain residual function mutations. • The FDA approved KALYDECO for treatment of infants with CF four months of age and older who have at least one mutation in their CFTR gene that is responsive to KALYDECO. • The European Commission approved KALYDECO for treatment of infants with CF four months of age and older who have the R117H mutation or certain gating mutations. Pipeline We continue to advance a broad pipeline of potentially transformative small molecule, cell and genetic therapies aimed at treating serious diseases. Since the beginning of 2020, we have made important progress in activities supporting these efforts. Beta Thalassemia and Sickle Cell Disease • In December, we and our collaborator, CRISPR, announced positive interim data from 10 people with TDT or SCD treated with CTX001 and that 20 people with severe hemoglobinopathies have been dosed with CTX001 in the ongoing Phase 1/2 clinical trials. Enrollment and dosing are ongoing, and completion of enrollment in both clinical trials is expected in 2021. Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Deficiency • Enrollment is ongoing in a Phase 2 proof-of-concept clinical trial for the corrector VX-864. We expect data from this clinical trial in the first half of 2021. • We discontinued development of VX-814, our first corrector, based on the safety and pharmacokinetic profile of VX-814 observed in a Phase 2 clinical trial. APOL1-Mediated Kidney Diseases • Enrollment is ongoing in a Phase 2 proof-of-concept clinical trial designed to evaluate the reduction of proteinuria in people with APOL1-mediated FSGS after treatment with VX-147. We expect data from this clinical trial in 2021. Type 1 Diabetes • We are developing a cell therapy designed to replace insulin-producing islet cells in patients with T1D. We are pursuing two programs for the transplant of these functional islets into patients: transplantation of islet cells alone, 59 using immunosuppression to protect the implanted cells, and implantation of the islet cells inside a novel immunoprotective device. • In January 2021, the FDA cleared our IND for VX-880, the islet cells alone program. We expect to initiate a Phase 1/2 clinical trial evaluating this program in the first half of 2021. This clinical trial will involve an infusion of fully differentiated, functional islet cells, and chronic administration of concomitant immunosuppressive therapy, to protect the islet cells from immune rejection. Investment in External Innovation • We entered into a collaboration with Skyhawk Therapeutics, Inc., or Skyhawk, for the discovery and development of novel small molecules that modulate RNA splicing for the treatment of serious diseases. • We entered into a new collaboration with Moderna, Inc., or Moderna, aimed at the discovery and development of lipid nanoparticles and mRNAs that can deliver gene-editing therapies to lung cells for the treatment of CF. • We entered into a collaboration with Affinia Therapeutics, Inc., or Affinia, to gain access to a novel library of AAV capsids to support on our ongoing research and development efforts in genetic therapies, including DMD, DM1 and CF. COVID-19 We continue to monitor the impacts of the COVID-19 global pandemic on our business. COVID-19 has not affected our supply chain or the demand for our medicines, and we believe that we will be able to continue to supply all of our approved medicines to patients globally. We have adjusted our business operations in response to COVID-19, with a majority of our employees continuing to work remotely. We continue to monitor local COVID-19 trends and government guidance for each of our site locations, and are utilizing a phased, site-specific approach to assess employee access to our sites. Currently, all of our research and manufacturing sites are open to essential employees. To provide a safe working environment for our on-site employees, we have, among other things, limited employee numbers at our open sites and increased safety measures, including at home and on-site testing in the U.S., enhanced cleaning and sanitation protocols, required use of personal protective equipment for all on-site employees, hand sanitation stations throughout our open sites and implementation of various social distancing measures while on-site. Research We continue to invest in our research programs and foster scientific innovation in order to identify and develop transformative medicines. Our strategy is to combine transformative advances in the understanding of human disease and the science of therapeutics in order to identify and develop new medicines. We believe that pursuing innovative approaches to treat diverse diseases of great unmet need allows us to balance the risks inherent in drug development and may provide drug candidates that will form our pipeline in future years. To supplement our internal research programs, we acquire technologies and programs and collaborate with biopharmaceutical and technology companies, leading academic research institutions, government laboratories, foundations and other organizations, as needed, to advance research in our areas of therapeutic interest and to access technologies needed to execute on our strategy. Drug Discovery and Development Discovery and development of a new pharmaceutical product is a difficult and lengthy process that requires significant financial resources along with extensive technical and regulatory expertise. Potential drug candidates are subjected to rigorous evaluations, driven in part by stringent regulatory considerations, designed to generate information concerning efficacy, side effects, proper dosage levels and a variety of other physical and chemical characteristics that are important in determining whether a drug candidate should be approved for marketing as a pharmaceutical product. Most chemical compounds that are investigated as potential drug candidates never progress into development, and most drug candidates that do advance into development never receive marketing approval. Because our investments in drug candidates are subject to considerable risks, we closely monitor the results of our discovery, research, clinical trials and nonclinical studies and frequently evaluate our drug development programs in light of new data and scientific, business and commercial insights, with the objective of balancing risk and potential. This process can result in rapid changes in focus and priorities as new information becomes available and as we gain additional understanding of our ongoing programs and potential new programs, as well as those of our competitors. For example, in October 2020, we discontinued development of VX-814, a 60 drug candidate for the treatment of AAT, based on the safety and pharmacokinetic profile of VX-814 observed in a Phase 2 clinical trial. If we believe that data from a completed registration program support approval of a drug candidate, we submit an NDA or BLA to the FDA requesting approval to market the drug candidate in the U.S. and seek analogous approvals from comparable regulatory authorities in jurisdictions outside the U.S. To obtain approval, we must, among other things, demonstrate with evidence gathered in nonclinical studies and well-controlled clinical trials that the drug candidate is safe and effective for the disease it is intended to treat and that the manufacturing facilities, processes and controls for the manufacture of the drug candidate are adequate. The FDA and ex-U.S. regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in deciding whether or not a drug candidate should be granted approval based on the benefits and risks of the drug candidate in the treatment of a particular disease, and could delay, limit or deny regulatory approval. If regulatory delays are significant or regulatory approval is limited or denied altogether, our financial results and the commercial prospects for the drug candidate involved will be harmed. Regulatory Compliance Our marketing of pharmaceutical products is subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations. We have a corporate compliance program designed to actively identify, prevent and mitigate risk through the implementation of compliance policies and systems and through the promotion of a culture of compliance. Among other laws, regulations and standards, we are subject to various U.S. federal and state laws, and comparable laws in other jurisdictions, pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback and false claims laws, and laws prohibiting the promotion of drugs for unapproved or off-label uses. Anti-kickback laws generally make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to knowingly and willfully solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in return for or to induce the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug that is reimbursed by a state or federal health care program. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly or willfully presenting for payment to third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. We are subject to laws and regulations that regulate the sales and marketing practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which govern our international business practices with respect to payments to government officials. In addition, we are subject to various data protection and privacy laws and regulations in the U.S., E.U., U.K., Canada, Australia and other jurisdictions. We expect to continue to devote substantial resources to maintain, administer and expand these compliance programs globally. Reimbursement Sales of our products depend, to a large degree, on the extent to which our products are reimbursed by third-party payors, such as government health programs, commercial insurance and managed health care organizations. We dedicate substantial management and other resources in order to obtain and maintain appropriate levels of reimbursement for our products from third-party payors, including governmental organizations in the U.S. and ex-U.S. markets. In the U.S., we have worked successfully with third party payors in order to promptly obtain appropriate levels of reimbursement for our CF medicines. We plan to continue to engage in discussions with numerous commercial insurers and managed health care organizations, along with government health programs that are typically managed by authorities in the individual states, to ensure that payors recognize the significant benefits that our medicines provide by treating the underlying cause of CF and continue to provide access to our medicines. In Europe and other ex-U.S. markets, we seek government reimbursement for our medicines on a country-by-country basis. This is necessary for each new medicine, as well as label expansions for our current medicines. We successfully obtained reimbursement for KALYDECO in each significant ex-U.S. market within two years of approval, but experienced significant challenges in obtaining reimbursement for ORKAMBI in certain ex-U.S. markets. With the completion of reimbursement discussions in England and France in 2019, we have reimbursement for ORKAMBI or SYMKEVI in most of our significant ex-U.S. markets. In addition, in several ex-U.S. markets, including England, Ireland, Denmark and Australia, our reimbursement agreements include innovative arrangements that provide a pathway to access and rapid reimbursement for certain future CF medicines. For example, our existing reimbursement agreements in England, Ireland, and Denmark have been expanded to include KAFTRIO. We expect to continue to focus significant resources to obtain appropriate reimbursement for our products in ex-U.S. markets. 61 Strategic Transactions Acquisitions As part of our business strategy, we seek to acquire drugs, drug candidates and other technologies and businesses that have the potential to complement our ongoing research and development efforts. In 2019, we invested significantly in business development transactions designed to augment our pipeline, including the acquisition of Semma Therapeutics, Inc., or Semma, a privately-held company focused on the use of stem cell-derived human islets as a potentially curative treatment for T1D, and Exonics Therapeutics, Inc., or Exonics, a privately-held company focused on creating transformative gene-editing therapies to repair mutations that cause DMD and other severe neuromuscular diseases, including DM1. In the Semma acquisition, we paid approximately $950.0 million in cash to Semma equity holders. In the Exonics acquisition, we paid approximately $245.0 million upfront to Exonics equity holders and agreed to additional payments based upon successful achievement of specified development and regulatory milestones. We expect to continue to identify and evaluate potential acquisitions and may include larger transactions or later stage assets. Both of our 2019 acquisitions were accounted for as business combinations. As of the acquisition date for each transaction, the cash payments, as well as the fair value of contingent consideration for Exonics, were allocated primarily to goodwill and the fair value of several in-process research and development assets that we acquired. The fair value of contingent consideration related to Exonics was recorded as a liability and continues to be adjusted on a quarterly basis. As a result, these acquisitions are primarily reflected in additional assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. Operating expenses incurred by Exonics and Semma after the acquisition dates and specific expenses associated with the acquisitions are reflected in our consolidated statement of operations. Please refer to our critical accounting policies, “ Acquisitions ,” for further information regarding the significant judgments and estimates related to our acquisitions. Collaboration and Licensing Arrangements We enter into arrangements with third parties, including collaboration and licensing arrangements, for the development, manufacture and commercialization of drugs, drug candidates and other technologies that have the potential to complement our ongoing research and development efforts. We expect to continue to identify and evaluate collaboration and licensing opportunities that may be similar to or different from the collaborations and licenses that we have engaged in previously. In-License Agreements We have entered into collaborations with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies in order to acquire rights or to license drug candidates or technologies that enhance our pipeline and/or our research capabilities. Over the last several years, we entered into collaboration agreements with a number of companies, including Affinia, Arbor Biotechnologies, Inc., CRISPR, Kymera Therapeutics, Inc., Moderna, Molecular Templates, Inc. and Skyhawk. Generally, when we in-license a technology or drug candidate, we make upfront payments to the collaborator, assume the costs of the program and/or agree to make contingent payments, which could consist of milestone, royalty and option payments. Most of these collaboration payments are expensed as research and development expenses; however, depending on many factors, including the structure of the collaboration, the significance of the in-licensed drug candidate to the collaborator’s operations and the other activities in which our collaborators are engaged, the accounting for these transactions can vary significantly. Our research and development expenses included $184.6 million in 2020, $318.3 million in 2019 and $111.9 million in 2018 related to upfront and milestone payments pursuant to our collaboration agreements. Out-License Agreements We also have out-licensed internally-developed programs to collaborators who are leading the development of these programs. These out-license arrangements include our agreement with Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, which licensed oncology research and development programs from us in early 2017. Pursuant to these out-licensing arrangements, our collaborators are responsible for the research, development and commercialization costs associated with these programs, and we are entitled to receive contingent milestone and/or royalty payments. As a result, we do not expect to incur significant expenses in connection with these programs and have the potential for future collaborative and royalty revenues resulting from these programs. 62 Please refer to Note B, “Collaborative Arrangements,” for further information regarding our in-license agreements and out-license agreements. Strategic Investments In connection with our business development activities, we have periodically made equity investments in our collaborators. As of December 31, 2020, we held strategic equity investments in several public companies and certain private companies, and we plan to make additional strategic equity investments in the future. While we invest the majority of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities in instruments that meet specific credit quality standards and limit our exposure to any one issue or type of instrument, our strategic investments are maintained and managed separately from our other cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Any changes in the fair value of equity investments with readily determinable fair values (including publicly traded securities) are recorded to other income (expense), net in our consolidated statement of operations. In 2020, 2019 and 2018, we recorded within other income (expense), net gains of $311.9 million, $197.6 million and $2.6 million, respectively, related to changes in the fair value of our strategic investments and from sales of certain investments. As of December 31, 2020, the fair value of our investments in publicly traded companies was $195.8 million. To the extent that we continue to hold strategic investments, particularly strategic investments in publicly traded companies, we will record other income (expense) related to these strategic investments on a quarterly basis. Due to the increased volatility of the global markets, including as a result of COVID-19, and the high volatility of stocks in the biotechnology industry, we expect the value of these strategic investments to fluctuate and that the increases or decreases in the fair value of these strategic investments will continue to have material impacts on our net income (expense) and our profitability on a quarterly and/or annual basis. 63 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Net Income Attributable to Vertex Our net income attributable to Vertex increased to $2.71 billion in 2020 as compared to $1.18 billion in 2019 primarily due to increased revenues and increased other income (expense) related to our strategic investments partially offset by increased operating costs and expenses and an increased provision for income taxes. The increased revenues were primarily due to the U.S. approval of TRIKAFTA in the fourth quarter of 2019, E.U. approval of KAFTRIO in the third quarter of 2020 and continued uptake of our medicines in ex-U.S. markets. The increased operating costs and expenses were primarily due to increased cost of sales consistent with increased net product revenues, increased investment in research and development and increased sales, general and administrative expenses to support our business. Net income attributable to Vertex in 2018 included a one-time non-cash benefit from income taxes of $1.56 billion resulting from our release of our valuation allowance. Net income attributable to Vertex decreased in 2019 as compared to 2018 as a result of this one-time tax benefit and increased operating costs and expenses. The increases in operating costs and expenses were primarily due to increased cost of sales due to increased net product revenues and increased research expenses associated with our business development activities. These decreases in our net income in 2019 as compared to 2018 were partially offset by increased net product revenues and increased gains recorded to other income (expense) related to our strategic investments. Earnings Per Share In 2020, 2019, and 2018, net income attributable to Vertex was $10.29, $4.51 and $8.09, respectively, per diluted share. In 2018, the benefit from income taxes as a result of the release of our valuation allowance increased net income attributable to Vertex by $6.03 per diluted share. 64 Revenues Product Revenues, Net In 2020, our net product revenues increased by $2.04 billion as compared to 2019. In 2019, our net product revenues increased by $1.12 billion as compared to 2018. The increase in total net product revenues in 2020 was primarily due to the launch of TRIKAFTA in the U.S in the fourth quarter of 2019 and KAFTRIO in the E.U. in the third quarter of 2020. Decreases in revenues for our other products were the result of patients in the U.S. switching from these medicines to TRIKAFTA, partially offset by label expansions and expanded access to our medicines in ex-U.S. markets. The increase in total net product revenues in 2019 was primarily due to the increasing number of patients being treated with SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI, the October 2019 approval of TRIKAFTA in the U.S., label expansions for KALYDECO and ORKAMBI and expanded access to our medicines in ex-U.S. markets. In 2020, 2019 and 2018, our net product revenues included product revenues of $1.4 billion, $1.1 billion and $682.4 million, respectively, from ex-U.S. markets. We expect that our net product revenues will increase in 2021 due to increasing numbers of people being treated with our medicines as a result of the continued uptake of TRIKAFTA, the approval of KAFTRIO by the European Commission, label expansions for our previously approved products and expanded access to our medicines. Upon reaching an agreement with the French government for ORKAMBI in the fourth quarter of 2019, including the final amount for ORKAMBI distributed through early access programs, we recognized an adjustment to increase net product revenues related to prior period shipments of ORKAMBI distributed through early access programs of $155.8 million. Please refer to “Critical Accounting Policies - Revenue Recognition” below for a discussion of our accounting treatment for our early access program for ORKAMBI in France. Collaborative and Royalty Revenues Our collaborative and royalty revenues were $2.9 million, $2.1 million and $9.3 million in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Our collaborative revenues have historically fluctuated significantly from one period to another and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Our future royalty revenues will be dependent on if, and when, our collaborators are able to successfully develop drug candidates that we have out-licensed to them. 65 Operating Costs and Expenses Cost of Sales Our cost of sales primarily consists of the third-party royalties payable on our net sales of our products as well as the cost of producing inventories that corresponded to product revenues for the reporting period. Pursuant to our agreement with the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, or CFF, our tiered third-party royalties on sales of TRIKAFTA/KAFTRIO, SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI, KALYDECO and ORKAMBI, calculated as a percentage of net sales, range from the single digits to the sub-teens, with royalties on sales of TRIKAFTA/KAFTRIO slightly lower than for our other products. Over the last several years, our cost of sales has been increasing due to increased net product revenues. Our cost of sales as a percentage of our net product revenues was approximately 12%, 13%, and 13% for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. In 2021, we expect our total cost of sales will increase due to expected increases in our net product revenues and our cost of sales as a percentage of total net product revenues will be similar to our cost of sales as a percentage of total net product revenues in 2020. Research and Development Expenses Our research and development expenses include internal and external costs incurred for research and development of our drugs and drug candidates and expenses related to certain technology that we acquire or license through business development transactions. We do not assign our internal costs, such as salary and benefits, stock-based compensation expense, laboratory supplies and other direct expenses and infrastructure costs, to individual drugs or drug candidates, because the employees within our research and development groups typically are deployed across multiple research and development programs. These internal costs are significantly greater than our external costs, such as the costs of services provided to us by clinical research organizations and other outsourced research, which we allocate by individual program. All research and development costs for our drugs and drug candidates are expensed as incurred. Over the past three years, we have incurred $5.0 billion in research and development expenses associated with drug discovery and development. The successful development of our drug candidates is highly uncertain and subject to a number of risks. In addition, the duration of clinical trials may vary substantially according to the type, complexity and novelty of the drug candidate and the disease indication being targeted. The FDA and comparable agencies in foreign countries impose substantial requirements on the introduction of therapeutic pharmaceutical products, typically requiring lengthy and detailed laboratory and clinical testing procedures, sampling activities and other costly and time-consuming procedures. Data obtained from nonclinical and clinical activities at any step in the testing process may be adverse and lead to discontinuation or redirection of development activities. Data obtained from these activities also are susceptible to varying interpretations, 66 which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. The duration and cost of discovery, nonclinical studies and clinical trials may vary significantly over the life of a project and are difficult to predict. Therefore, accurate and meaningful estimates of the ultimate costs to bring our drug candidates to market are not available. In 2020, 2019 and 2018, costs related to our CF programs represented the largest portion of our development costs. Any estimates regarding development and regulatory timelines for our drug candidates are highly subjective and subject to change. Until we have data from Phase 3 clinical trials, we cannot make a meaningful estimate regarding when, or if, a clinical development program will generate revenues and cash flows. Research Expenses We expect to continue to invest in our research programs with a focus on identifying drug candidates with the goal of creating transformative medicines for serious diseases. Our total research expenses have historically fluctuated, and are expected to continue to fluctuate, from one period to another due to upfront and milestone payments related to our business development activities that are reflected in the preceding table as collaborative payments. Our research expenses, excluding these collaborative payments, have been increasing over the last several years as we have invested in our pipeline and expanded our cell and genetic therapies capabilities. Development Expenses Our development expenses increased by $171.0 million, or 17%, in 2020 as compared to 2019 and increased by $43.7 million, or 4%, in 2019 as compared to 2018, primarily due to increased expenses related to our diversifying pipeline, including clinical trials, headcount and infrastructure costs. We expect our development expenses to continue to increase in 2021 as a result of our advancing pipeline. 67 Sales, General and Administrative Expenses Sales, general and administrative expenses increased by 17% in 2020 as compared to 2019, and by 18% in 2019 as compared to 2018, primarily due to increased global support for our medicines, including incremental investment to support the launch of our triple combination regimen and increased support for our CF pipeline products and other disease areas. We expect our sales, general and administrative expenses to continue to increase in 2021. Contingent Consideration In 2020 and 2019, the increase in the fair value of contingent consideration potentially payable to Exonics’ former equity holders was $13.1 million and $4.5 million, respectively, primarily due to changes in market interest rates. There were no similar amounts in 2018. In future periods, we expect the fair value of contingent consideration to increase or decrease based on, among other things, our estimates of the probability of achieving and the timing of these contingent development and regulatory milestone payments, as well as the time value of money changes in market interest rates. Intangible Asset Impairment Charge In 2018, we recorded a $29.0 million impairment charge related to VX-210 that was licensed from BioAxone Biosciences, Inc., or BioAxone, in 2014. This charge was attributable to non-controlling interest on our consolidated statement of operations because we consolidated BioAxone as a variable interest entity, or VIE, until December 31, 2018. There were no corresponding intangible asset impairment charges in 2020 or 2019. Other Non-Operating Income (Expense), Net Interest Income Interest income increased from $38.4 million in 2018 to $63.7 million in 2019 and decreased to $22.2 million in 2020. The increase in our interest income in 2019 as compared to 2018 was primarily due to increases in our cash equivalents and available-for-sale debt securities and prevailing market interest rates. The decrease in our interest income in 2020 as compared to 2019 was primarily due to a decrease in prevailing market interest rates despite continued increases in our cash equivalents and available-for-sale debt securities. Our future interest income will be dependent on the amount of, and prevailing market interest rates on, our outstanding cash equivalents and available-for-sale debt securities. Interest Expense Interest expense was $58.2 million in 2020, $58.5 million in 2019 and $72.5 million in 2018. The majority of our interest expense in these periods was related to imputed interest expense associated with our leased corporate headquarters in Boston and our research site in San Diego. On January 1, 2019, we adopted ASC 842, Leases , which resulted in a reduction in our imputed interest expense associated with these leases in 2020 and 2019. Our future interest expense will be dependent on whether, and to what extent, we borrow amounts under our credit facilities. Other Income (Expense), Net In 2020 and 2019, we recorded net other income of $296.4 million and $192.2 million, respectively, primarily related to changes in the fair value of our strategic investments. In 2018, we recorded net other expense of $0.8 million. We expect that due to the volatility of the stock price of biotechnology companies, our other income (expense), net will fluctuate in future periods based on increases or decreases in the fair value of our strategic investments. 68 Noncontrolling Interest (VIEs) In 2018, our $9.8 million net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest reflects BioAxone’s net loss for the reporting period. We deconsolidated BioAxone from our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2018 and did not consolidate any VIEs into our consolidated financial statements in 2020 or 2019. Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes was $405.2 million for 2020 and $218.1 million for 2019. Our effective tax rate of 13% for 2020 was lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to (i) discrete tax benefits associated with the $209.0 million transfer of intellectual property rights to the U.K., the write-off of a long-term intercompany receivable, and an increase in the U.K.’s corporate tax rate; and (ii) excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation. The impact of these items was partially offset by a U.S. deemed dividend. Our effective tax rate of 16% for 2019 was lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation and research and development tax credits. In 2018, we recorded a benefit from income taxes of $1.5 billion because we released our valuation allowance on the majority of our net operating losses and other deferred tax assets in the fourth quarter of 2018, resulting in a non-cash credit to net income of $1.56 billion. Starting in 2019, we began recording a provision for income taxes on our pre-tax income using an effective tax rate approximating statutory rates. Due to our ability to offset our pre-tax income against previously benefited net operating losses, the majority of our tax provision in 2020 and 2019 represented a non-cash expense. We utilized substantially all of our remaining previously benefited U.S. net operating losses in 2020. As a result, a larger portion of our tax provision will represent a cash tax payable in future periods. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The following table summarizes the components of our financial condition as of December 31, 2020 and 2019: As of December 31, 2020, total working capital was $6.3 billion, which represented an increase of $2.8 billion from $3.5 billion as of December 31, 2019. The increase in total working capital in 2020 was primarily related to $3.3 billion of cash provided by operations partially offset by $539.1 million of cash used to repurchase our common stock pursuant our share repurchase programs and purchases of property and equipment of $259.8 million. Sources of Liquidity As of December 31, 2020, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $6.7 billion, which represented an increase of $2.9 billion from $3.8 billion as of December 31, 2019. We intend to rely on our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities together with cash flows from product sales as our primary source of liquidity. We may borrow up to a total of $2.5 billion pursuant to two revolving credit facilities. We may repay and reborrow amounts under these revolving credit agreements without penalty. Subject to certain conditions, we may request that the borrowing capacity for each of the credit agreements be increased by an additional $500.0 million, for a total of $3.5 billion collectively. Other possible sources of future liquidity include commercial debt, public and private offerings of our equity and debt securities, strategic sales of assets or businesses and financial transactions. Negative covenants in our credit agreement may prohibit or limit our ability to access these sources of liquidity. As of December 31, 2020, we were in compliance with these covenants. 69 Future Capital Requirements We have significant future capital requirements including: • significant expected operating expenses to conduct research and development activities and to operate our organization; and • substantial facility and finance lease obligations. In addition: • We have entered into certain collaboration agreements with third parties that include the funding of certain research, development and commercialization efforts. Certain of our business development transactions, including collaborations and acquisitions, include the potential for future milestone and royalty payments by us upon the achievement of pre-established developmental and regulatory targets and/or commercial targets. We may enter into additional business development transactions, including acquisitions, collaborations and equity investments, that require additional capital. • To the extent we borrow amounts under the credit agreements we entered into in 2020 and 2019, we would be required to repay any outstanding principal amounts in 2022 or 2024, respectively. • As of December 31, 2020, $424.9 million remained available to fund repurchases under the 2020 Share Repurchase Program that we announced in November 2020. We expect that cash flows from our products together with our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next twelve months and do not expect COVID-19 to have an adverse effect on our liquidity. The adequacy of our available funds to meet our future operating and capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the amounts of future revenues generated by our products, and the potential introduction of one or more of our other drug candidates to the market, the level of our business development activities and the number, breadth, cost and prospects of our research and development programs. Financing Strategy We may raise additional capital by borrowing under credit agreements, through public offerings or private placements of our securities or securing new collaborative agreements or other methods of financing. We will continue to manage our capital structure and will consider all financing opportunities, whenever they may occur, that could strengthen our long-term liquidity profile. There can be no assurance that any such financing opportunities will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. CONTRACTUAL COMMITMENTS AND OBLIGATIONS The following table sets forth our commitments and obligations as of December 31, 2020: Leases We lease two buildings that are located at Fan Pier in Boston, Massachusetts. We commenced lease payments on these two buildings in December 2013 and the initial lease periods end in December 2028. We also lease office and laboratory 70 space in San Diego, California. We commenced lease payments for this building in the second quarter of 2019 pursuant to an initial 16 year lease term. The future minimum rental payments that we are obligated to pay related to the San Diego building are included in “Finance leases, excluding Fan Pier Leases,” which also reflects leases of equipment and a land lease. The remainder of our real estate leases are reflected in “Operating leases” in the table above, including office and laboratory space at our Cell and Genetic Therapies facility near our corporate headquarters. Base rent payments will commence for this building in the fourth quarter of 2021 pursuant to an initial 15 year lease term. Research and Development Costs “Research and development costs” included in the table above primarily relate to pharmaceutical materials to be utilized in our clinical trials and research costs related to our advancing pipeline. The amounts reflected in “Research and development costs” do not include certain payments we anticipate making to clinical research organizations, or CROs, because these contracts are cancelable, at our option, with notice. However, we historically have not cancelled such contracts. As of December 31, 2020, we had accrued $42.8 million related to these contracts for costs incurred for services provided through December 31, 2020, and we have approximately $237.6 million in cancelable future commitments based on existing contracts as of December 31, 2020. These amounts reflect planned expenditures based on existing contracts and do not reflect any future modifications to, or terminations of, existing contracts or anticipated or potential new contracts. Collaborative Arrangements and Asset Acquisitions We have entered into certain research and development collaboration agreements with third parties and acquired certain assets that include the funding of certain development, manufacturing and commercialization efforts with the potential for future milestone and royalty payments by us upon the achievement of pre-established developmental, regulatory and/or commercial targets. Our obligation to fund these efforts is contingent upon continued involvement in the programs and/or the lack of any adverse events that could cause the discontinuance of the programs. These payments, which are not included in the contractual obligations table above, include: • CFF: We pay royalties, which are included in cost of sales, to CFF on sales of our CF products. • Research and Development Milestones: The majority of our in-license agreements and our acquisitions have milestone and royalty payments payable by us upon the successful achievement of pre-established developmental, regulatory and/or commercial targets or net sales. Contingent payments under these agreements become due and payable only upon achievement of certain milestones. Tax-related Obligations We exclude liabilities pertaining to uncertain tax positions from our summary of contractual obligations as we cannot make a reliable estimate of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. As of December 31, 2020, our liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions were $86.6 million. Other Funding Commitments Our table detailing contractual commitments and obligations does not include severance payment obligations to certain of our executive officers in the event of a not-for-cause employment termination under existing employment contracts. We will provide information regarding these obligations annually in our proxy statement for our annual meeting of shareholders. 71 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods. These items are monitored and analyzed by management for changes in facts and circumstances, and material changes in these estimates could occur in the future. Changes in estimates are reflected in reported results for the period in which the change occurs. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from our estimates if past experience or other assumptions do not turn out to be substantially accurate. We believe that our application of the following accounting policies, each of which requires significant judgments and estimates on the part of management, are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results: • revenue recognition; • acquisitions, including intangible assets, goodwill and contingent consideration; and • income taxes. Our accounting policies, including the ones discussed below, are more fully described in the Notes to our consolidated financial statements, including Note A, “Nature of Business and Accounting Policies,” included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Revenue Recognition Product Revenues, Net We generate product revenues from sales in the U.S. and in international markets. We sell our products principally to a limited number of specialty pharmacy and specialty distributors in the U.S., which account for the largest portion of our total revenues, and make international sales primarily to specialty distributors and retail chains, as well as hospitals and clinics, many of which are government-owned or supported customers, collectively, our customers. Our customers in the U.S. subsequently resell our products to patients and health care providers. We contract with government agencies so that our products will be eligible for purchase by, or partial or full reimbursement from, such third-party payors. We recognize net product revenues from sales of our products when our customers obtain control of our products, which typically occurs upon delivery to our customers. Revenues from our product sales are recorded at the net sales price, or “transaction price,” which requires us to make several significant estimates regarding the net sales price. The most significant estimate we are required to make is related to government and private payor rebates, chargebacks, discounts and fees, collectively rebates. The value of the rebates provided to third-party payors per course of treatment vary significantly and are based on government-mandated discounts and our arrangements with other third-party payors. In order to estimate our total rebates, we estimate the percentage of prescriptions that will be covered by each third-party payor, which is referred to as the payor mix. We track available information regarding changes, if any, to the payor mix for our products, to our contractual terms with third-party payors and to applicable governmental programs and regulations and levels of our products in the distribution channel. We adjust our estimated rebates based on new information, including information regarding actual rebates for our products, as it becomes available. Claims by third-party payors for rebates are submitted to us significantly after the related sales, potentially resulting in adjustments in the period in which the new information becomes known. Our credits to revenue related to prior period sales, excluding the adjustment to the transaction price for ORKAMBI distributed through early access programs in France in 2019, have not been significant (typically less than 1% of gross product revenues) and primarily related to U.S. rebates. 72 The following table summarizes activity related to our accruals for rebates (including our refund liability to the French government related to ORKAMBI distributed through early access programs in France as described below) for the three years ended December 31, 2020: We have also entered into annual contracts with government-owned and supported customers in international markets that limit the amount of annual reimbursement we can receive. Upon exceeding the annual reimbursement amount, products are provided free of charge, which is a material right. We defer a portion of the consideration received, which includes upfront payments and fees, for shipments made up to the annual reimbursement limit as “Other current liabilities.” The deferred amount is recognized as revenue when the free products are shipped. In order to estimate the portion of the consideration received to recognize as revenue and the portion of the amount to defer, we rely on our forecast of the number of units we will distribute during the applicable annual period in each international market in which our contracts with government-owned and supported customers limit the amount of annual reimbursement we can receive. Our forecasts are based on, among other things, our historical experience. The preceding estimates and judgments materially affect our recognition of net product revenues. Changes in our estimates of net product revenues could have a material effect on net product revenues recorded in the period in which we determine that change occurs. French Early Access Programs In 2015, we began distributing ORKAMBI through early access programs in France and remained engaged in reimbursement discussions with the French government for ORKAMBI, including ORKAMBI distributed through early access programs, until November 2019, when we reached an agreement with the French government. From the time we began distributing ORKAMBI through early access programs in France, we expected that the difference between the amounts collected based on the invoiced amount and the final amount for ORKAMBI distributed through these programs would be returned to the French government. Our refund liability related to the early access programs in France was classified in “Accrued expenses” on our consolidated balance sheets. From the first quarter of 2018 through the third quarter of 2019, we recognized net product revenues for ORKAMBI sales in France under the early access programs based on a transaction price that reflected our estimate of consideration we expected to retain that would not be subject to a significant reversal in amounts recognized, which resulted in revenue representing a portion of the invoiced amount. Upon reaching an agreement with the French government for ORKAMBI, including the final amount for ORKAMBI distributed through early access programs in France in the fourth quarter of 2019, we updated the transaction price related to ORKAMBI distributed through early access programs and recognized net product revenues of $155.8 million related to these shipments, which occurred from 2015 through the date of our agreement with the French government, because the final amount for these shipments exceeded our previous estimate. 73 Acquisitions We are required to make several significant judgments and estimates in order to calculate the purchase price for our business combinations and then allocate it to the assets that we have acquired and the liabilities that we have assumed on our consolidated balance sheet. The most significant judgments and estimates relate to the fair value of the in-process research and development assets and contingent consideration liabilities related to these business combinations. Based on these judgments and estimates, the fair value of the goodwill that we record as a result of these business combinations may be material. Once recorded, these assets are subject to quarterly impairment analysis and our contingent consideration liability is adjusted quarterly, which requires similar judgments and estimates. Intangible Assets In 2019, we recorded in-process research and development assets related to our acquisitions of Exonics and Semma totaling $400.0 million on our consolidated balance sheet, which remained on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2020. Each of these assets is accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset and is maintained on our consolidated balance sheet until either the project underlying it is completed or the asset becomes impaired. When we determine that an asset has become impaired or we abandon a project, we write down the carrying value of the related intangible asset to its fair value and record an impairment charge in the period in which the impairment occurs. In 2018, we recorded a full impairment charge of $29.0 million for the in-process research and development asset that had previously been recorded on our consolidated balance sheets related to our collaboration with BioAxone. To determine the fair value of our in-process research and development assets, we utilize the multi-period excess earnings method of the income approach, which requires us to make estimates of the probability of technical and regulatory success, development cost assumptions, revenue projections and growth rates, commercial cost estimates and appropriate discount rates. These assumptions require significant management judgment and reasonable changes in the assumptions can cause material changes to the fair value of the intangible assets. Due to the early stage of Exonics and Semma’s programs, these significant assumptions could be affected by future economic and market conditions. Contingent Consideration As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, we had $189.6 million and $176.5 million, respectively, of liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet attributable to the fair value of the contingent development and regulatory payments that we may owe to Exonics’ former equity holders upon the achievement of certain events. Our acquisition of Semma in 2019 did not include similar contingent payments; therefore, we are not required to record contingent consideration liabilities related to our acquisition of Semma. We record an increase or a decrease in the fair value of the contingent consideration liability on our consolidated balance sheet and in our consolidated statement of operations on a quarterly basis. We determine the fair value of our contingent consideration liability using a probability weighted discounted cash flow method of the income approach, which requires us to make estimates of the timing of regulatory and commercial milestone achievement and the corresponding estimated probability of technical and regulatory success rates. Significant judgment is used in determining the appropriateness of these assumptions during each reporting period. Reasonable changes in these assumptions can cause material changes to the fair value of our contingent consideration liability. Due to the early stage of Exonics’ DMD and DM1 programs, these significant assumptions could be affected by future economic and market conditions. Goodwill In 2020, we did not have any business combinations; therefore, we did not record any additional goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet. In 2019, we recorded goodwill of $554.6 million and $397.1 million related to our acquisitions of Semma and Exonics, respectively. Goodwill reflects the difference between the fair value of the consideration transferred and the fair value of the net assets acquired. Thus, the goodwill that we record is dependent on the significant judgments and estimates inherent in the fair value of our in-process research and development assets and contingent consideration liabilities. Income Taxes We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement carrying amounts and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for years in which the temporary differences are expected to reverse. If our estimate 74 of the tax effect of reversing temporary differences is (i) not reflective of actual outcomes, (ii) modified to reflect new developments or interpretations of the tax law, or (iii) revised to incorporate new accounting principles, or changes in the expected timing or manner of the reversal, our results of operations could be materially impacted. We are engaged in research and development activities and incurred significant net operating losses for a number of years before recently becoming profitable. Accordingly, we did not report any tax benefits relating to our net operating loss carryforwards and income tax credit carryforwards that were available for utilization in future periods because we maintained a valuation allowance on the majority of our net operating losses and other deferred tax assets until December 31, 2018. We released the valuation allowance on the majority of our net operating losses and other deferred tax assets resulting in a non-cash benefit from income taxes of $1.56 billion in the fourth quarter of 2018. We provide a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets will not be realized. On a periodic basis, we reassess our valuation allowances on our deferred tax assets, weighing positive and negative evidence to assess the recoverability of the deferred tax assets. In the fourth quarter of 2018, we reassessed our valuation allowances and considered positive evidence including significant cumulative consolidated and U.S. income over the three years ended December 31, 2018, revenue growth, clinical program progression, including the advancement and clinical trial data from our triple combination regimens, and expectations regarding future profitability, and negative evidence, including potential impact of competition on our projections and cumulative losses in the jurisdictions. After assessing both the positive evidence and the negative evidence, we released the valuation allowance on the majority of our net operating losses and other deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2018. Significant judgment is required in making these assessments to maintain or reverse our valuation allowances and, to the extent our future expectations change we would have to assess the recoverability of these deferred tax assets at that time. The determination to release the majority of our valuation allowances increased our net income by $1.56 billion, or $6.03 per share in 2018. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Refer to Note A, “Nature of Business and Accounting Policies,” in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements and new accounting pronouncements adopted during 2020.