********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Summary of Risk Factors The following summarizes the principal factors that make an investment in our company speculative or risky, all of which are more fully described in the Risk Factors section below. This summary should be read in conjunction with the Risk Factors section and should not be relied upon as an exhaustive summary of the material risks facing our business. The following factors could result in harm to our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and prospects, among other impacts: Market, Financial and Economic Risks • Our revenues, results of operations and operating cash flows are affected by price fluctuations in the wholesale power market and other market factors beyond our control. • We purchase natural gas, coal, fuel oil, and nuclear fuel for our generation facilities, and higher than expected fuel costs or disruptions in these fuel markets may have an adverse impact on, our costs, revenues, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. • We have retired, announced planned retirements of, and may be forced to retire or idle additional underperforming generation units which could result in significant costs and have an adverse effect on our operating results. • Our assets or positions cannot be fully hedged against changes in commodity prices and market heat rates, and hedging transactions may not work as planned or hedge counterparties may default on their obligations. • Competition, changes in market structure, and/or state or federal interference in the wholesale and retail power markets, together with subsidized generation, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. • Our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by energy market participants continuing to construct new generation facilities or expanding or enhancing existing generation facilities despite relatively low power prices and such additional generation capacity results in a reduction in wholesale power prices. • Our liquidity needs could be difficult to satisfy, particularly during times of uncertainty in the financial markets or during times of significant fluctuation in commodity prices, and we may be unable to access capital on favorable terms or at all in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on us. • The agreements and instruments governing our debt, including the Vistra Operations Credit Facilities and indentures, contain restrictions and limitations that could affect our ability to operate our business, our liquidity, and our results of operations, and any failure to comply with these restrictions could have a material adverse effect on us. • We may not be able to complete future acquisitions on favorable terms or at all, successfully integrate future acquisitions into our business, or effectively identify and invest in value-creating businesses, assets or projects, which could result in unanticipated expenses and losses or otherwise hinder or delay our growth strategy. • Our ability to achieve the expected growth of our Vistra Zero portfolio, consisting of our solar generation, ESS, and other renewables development projects, is subject to substantial capital requirements and other significant uncertainties. • Tax legislation initiatives or challenges to our tax positions, or potential future legislation or the imposition of new or increased taxes or fees, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. • We are required to pay the holders of TRA Rights for certain tax benefits, which amounts are expected to be substantial. 19 Regulatory and Legislative Risks • Our businesses are subject to ongoing complex governmental regulations and legislation that have adversely impacted, and may in the future adversely impact, our businesses, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. • Our cost of compliance with existing and new environmental laws could have a material adverse effect on us. • Pending or proposed laws or regulations, including those proposed or implemented under the Biden administration, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. • Changes to laws, rules or regulations related to market structures in the markets in which we participate may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operation, liquidity and financial condition. • We could be materially and adversely affected if current regulations are implemented or if new federal or state legislation or regulations are adopted to address global climate change, or if we are subject to lawsuits for alleged damage to persons or property resulting from greenhouse gas emissions. • Litigation, legal proceedings, regulatory investigations or other administrative proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and reputational damage that could have a material adverse effect on us. Operational Risks • Volatile power supply costs and demand for power have and could in the future adversely affect the financial performance of our retail businesses. • Our retail operations are subject to significant competition from other REPs, which could result in a loss of existing customers and the inability to attract new customers. • The operation of our businesses is subject to information security and operational technology risks, including cybersecurity breaches and failure of critical information and operations technology systems.  Attacks on our infrastructure that breach cyber/data security measures could expose us to significant liabilities, reputational damage, regulatory action, and disrupt business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on us. • We may suffer material losses, costs and liabilities due to operational risks, regulatory risks, and the risk of nuclear accidents arising from the ownership and operation of the Comanche Peak nuclear generation facility. • The operation and maintenance of power generation facilities and related mining operations are capital intensive and involve significant risks that could adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. • We may be materially and adversely affected by obligations to comply with federal and state regulations, laws, and other legal requirements that govern the operations, assessments, storage, closure, corrective action, disposal and monitoring relating to CCR. • We have been and may in the future be materially and adversely affected by, the effects of extreme weather conditions and seasonality. • Events outside of our control, including an epidemic or outbreak of an infectious disease, such as COVID-19, may materially adversely affect our business. • Changes in technology, increased electricity conservation efforts, or energy sustainability efforts may reduce the value of our generation facilities and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on us. Risks Related to Our Structure and Ownership of our Common Stock • Evolving expectations from stakeholders, including investors, on ESG issues, including climate change and sustainability matters, and erosion of stakeholder trust or confidence could influence actions or decisions about our company and our industry and could adversely affect our business, operations, financial results, or stock price. • We may not pay any dividends on our common stock in the future, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of our share repurchase program. 20 Please carefully consider the following discussion of significant factors, events, and uncertainties that make an investment in our securities risky.  These factors, in addition to others specifically addressed in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) , provide important information for the understanding of our forward-looking statements in this annual report on Form 10-K.  If one or more of the factors, events and uncertainties discussed below or in the MD&A were to materialize, our business, results of operations, liquidity, financial condition, cash flows, reputation or prospects could be materially adversely affected.  In addition, if one or more of such factors, events and uncertainties were to materialize, it could cause results or outcomes to differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statement in this annual report on Form 10-K.  There may be further risks and uncertainties that are not currently known or that are not currently believed to be material that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and prospects and the market price of our common stock in the future.  The realization of any of these factors could cause investors in our securities (including our common stock) to lose all or a substantial portion of their investment. Market, Financial and Economic Risks Our revenues, results of operations and operating cash flows generally are affected by price fluctuations in the wholesale power market and other market factors beyond our control. We are not guaranteed any rate of return on capital investments in our businesses.  We conduct integrated power generation and retail electricity activities, focusing on power generation, wholesale electricity sales and purchases, retail sales of electricity and natural gas to end users and commodity risk management.  Our wholesale and retail businesses are to some extent countercyclical in nature, particularly for the wholesale power and ancillary services supplied to the retail business.  However, we do have a wholesale power position that is subject to wholesale power price moves, which may be significant.  As a result, our revenues, results of operations and operating cash flows depend in large part upon wholesale market prices for electricity, natural gas, uranium, lignite, coal, fuel, and transportation in our regional markets and other competitive markets in which we operate and upon prevailing retail electricity rates, which may be impacted by, among other things, actions of regulatory authorities. Market prices for power, capacity, ancillary services, natural gas, coal and fuel oil are unpredictable and may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time.  Unlike most other commodities, electric power can only be stored on a very limited basis and generally must be produced concurrently with its use.  As a result, power prices are subject to significant volatility due to supply and demand imbalances, especially in the day-ahead and spot markets.  Demand for electricity can fluctuate dramatically, creating periods of substantial under- or over-supply.  Over-supply can occur as a result of the construction of new power generation sources, as we have observed in recent years.  During periods of over-supply, electricity prices might be depressed.  For example, the cost of electricity from renewable resources, such as solar, wind and battery ESS, has dropped substantially in recent years.  In many instances, energy from these sources are bid into the relevant spot market at a price of zero or close to zero during certain times of the day, lowering the clearing price for all power wholesalers in such market.  Also, at times there is political pressure, or pressure from regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over wholesale and retail energy commodity and transportation rates, to impose price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms to address volatility and other issues in these markets. Extreme weather events can also materially impact power prices or otherwise exacerbate conditions or circumstances that result in volatility of power prices.  For example, in February 2021, the U.S. experienced Winter Storm Uri and extreme cold temperatures in the central U.S., including Texas.  This severe weather event substantially increased the demand for natural gas used in our electric power generation business, and the cold further limited the availability of renewable generation across the region contributing to extremely high market prices for natural gas and electricity, which resulted in substantial increases in the costs to procure sufficient fuel supply and increased collateral posting requirements.  Winter Storm Elliott, in December 2022, was another example of extreme weather across the U.S. that resulted in widespread wholesale power market volatility. The majority of our facilities operate as "merchant" facilities without long-term power sales agreements.  As a result, we largely sell electric energy, capacity and ancillary services into the wholesale energy spot market or into other wholesale and retail power markets on a short-term basis and are not guaranteed any rate of return on our capital investments.  Consequently, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell any or all of the electric energy, capacity or ancillary services from those facilities at commercially attractive rates or that our facilities will be able to operate profitably.  We depend, in large part, upon prevailing market prices for power, capacity and fuel.  Given the volatility of commodity power prices, to the extent we are unable to hedge or otherwise secure long-term power sales agreements for the output of our power generation facilities, our revenues and profitability will be subject to volatility, and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 21 We purchase natural gas, coal, fuel oil, and nuclear fuel for our generation facilities, and higher than expected fuel costs, volatility, or disruption in these fuel markets may have an adverse impact on our costs, revenues, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We rely on natural gas, coal, fuel oil, and nuclear fuel for the majority of our power generation facilities.  Delivery of these fuels to the facilities is dependent upon the continuing availability of such fuels and financial viability of contractual counterparties as well as upon the infrastructure (including mines, rail lines, rail cars, barge facilities, roadways, riverways and natural gas pipelines) available and functioning to serve each generation facility, and geopolitical risk, including the current Russia and Ukraine conflict and the potential for additional U.S. sanctions against Russia.  See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Significant Activities and Events and Items Influencing Future Performance - Macroeconomic Conditions .  As a result, we have experienced, and remain subject to the risks of disruptions or curtailments in the production of power at our generation facilities if no fuel is available at any price, if a counterparty fails to perform or if there is a disruption in the fuel delivery infrastructure.  Certain of our generation facilities rely on a limited number of counterparties, such as natural gas suppliers and railcar companies, to provide the necessary fuel.  Disputes relating to or non-performance of contractual arrangements, have resulted in, and may continue to result in adverse impacts to our costs, revenues, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. As part of our strategy to mitigate the potential negative effects of commodity price volatility, we have sold forward a substantial portion of our expected power sales in the next three years in order to lock in long-term prices.  In order to hedge our obligations under these forward power sales contracts, we have entered into long-term and short-term contracts for the purchase and delivery of fuel.  Many of the forward power sales contracts do not allow us to pass through changes in fuel costs or discharge the power sale obligations in the case of a disruption in fuel supply due to force majeure events or the default of a fuel supplier or transporter.  Fuel costs (including diesel, natural gas, lignite, coal and nuclear fuel) are volatile, and the wholesale price for electricity does not always change at the same rate as changes in fuel costs, and disruptions in our fuel supplies may therefore require us to find alternative fuel sources at costs which may be higher than planned, to find other sources of power to deliver to counterparties at a higher cost, or to pay damages to counterparties for failure to deliver power as contracted.  Long-term and short-term contracts are subject to risk of non-delivery or claims of force majeure, which may impact our ability to economically recover the value of the contract.  In addition, we purchase and sell natural gas and other energy related commodities, and volatility in these markets may affect costs incurred in meeting our obligations.  Further, any changes in the costs of natural gas, coal, fuel oil, nuclear fuel or transportation rates and changes in the relationship between such costs and the market prices of power will affect our financial results.  If we are unable to procure fuel for physical delivery at prices we consider favorable, or if we are unable to procure these fuels at all, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.  For example, supply challenges were among the primary drivers of the significant loss experienced in 2021 as a result of Winter Storm Uri. We also buy significant quantities of fuel on a short-term or spot market basis.  Prices for all of our fuels fluctuate, sometimes rising or falling significantly over a relatively short period of time.  The price we can obtain for the sale of energy may not rise at the same rate, or may not rise at all, to match a rise in fuel or delivery costs.  This may have a material adverse effect on our financial and operating performance.  Volatility in market prices for fuel and electricity results from, among other factors: • demand for energy commodities and general economic conditions, including impacts of inflation and the relative strength or weakness of U.S. dollar compared to other currencies; • volatility in commodity prices and the supply of commodities, including but not limited to natural gas, coal and fuel oil; • volatility in market heat rates; • volatility in coal and rail transportation prices; • volatility in nuclear fuel and related enrichment and conversion services; • transmission or transportation disruptions, constraints, congestion, inoperability or inefficiencies of electricity, natural gas or coal transmission or transportation, or other changes in power transmission infrastructure; • severe, sustained or unexpected weather conditions, including extreme cold, drought and limitations on access to water; • seasonality; • changes in electricity and fuel usage resulting from conservation efforts, changes in technology or other factors; • illiquidity in the wholesale electricity or other commodity markets; • importation of liquified natural gas to certain markets; • development and availability of new fuels, new technologies and new forms of competition for the production and storage of power, including competitively priced alternative energy sources or storage; • changes in market structure and liquidity; 22 • changes in the way we operate our facilities, including curtailed operation due to market pricing, environmental regulations and legislation, safety or other factors; • changes in generation capacity or efficiency; • outages or otherwise reduced output from our generation facilities or those of our competitors; • changes in electric capacity, including the addition of new supplies of power as a result of the development of new plants, expansion of existing plants, the continued operation of uneconomic power plants due to federal, state or local subsidies, or additional transmission capacity; • local, regional, national, or global supply chain constraints or shortages; • our creditworthiness and liquidity and the willingness of fuel suppliers and transporters to do business with us; • changes in the credit risk, payment practices, or financial condition of market participants; • changes in production and storage levels of natural gas, lignite, coal, uranium, diesel and other refined products; • pandemics and epidemics (including the impacts thereto, or recovery therefrom), natural disasters, wars, sabotage, terrorist acts, embargoes and other catastrophic events; and • changes in law, including judicial decisions, federal, state and local energy, environmental and other regulation and legislation. See " Economic downturns would likely have a material adverse effect on our businesses" for a discussion of potential risks arising from current U.S. and global economic and geopolitical conditions. We have retired, announced planned retirements of, and may be forced to retire or idle additional underperforming generation units which could result in significant costs and have an adverse effect on our operating results. A sustained decrease in the financial results from, or the value of, our generation units has resulted in the retirement or planned retirement of, and ultimately could result in additional retirements or idling of, generation units.  We have operated certain of our lignite- and coal-fueled generation assets only during parts of the year that have higher electricity demand and, therefore, higher related wholesale electricity prices.  In connection with the closure and remediation of retired generation units, we have spent, and may in the future spend, a significant amount of money, internal resources and time to complete the required closure and reclamation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial and operating performance. Our assets or positions cannot be fully hedged against changes in commodity prices and market heat rates, and hedging transactions may not work as planned, or counterparties may default on their obligations, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our hedging activities do not fully protect us against the risks associated with changes in commodity prices, most notably electricity and natural gas prices, because of the expected useful life of our generation assets and the size of our position relative to the duration of available markets for various hedging activities.  Generally, commodity markets that we participate in to hedge our exposure to electricity prices and heat rates have limited liquidity after two to three years.  Further, our ability to hedge our revenues by utilizing cross-commodity hedging strategies with natural gas hedging instruments is generally limited to a duration of four to five years.  To the extent we have unhedged positions, fluctuating commodity prices and/or market heat rates can materially impact our results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and financial condition, either favorably or unfavorably. To manage our financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we routinely enter into contracts to hedge portions of purchase and sale commitments, fuel requirements and inventories of natural gas, lignite, coal, diesel fuel, uranium and refined products, and other commodities, within established risk management guidelines.  As part of this strategy, we routinely utilize fixed-price forward physical purchase and sale contracts, futures, financial swaps and option contracts traded in over-the-counter markets or on exchanges.  Given our exposure to risks of commodity price movements, we devote a considerable amount of time and effort to the establishment of risk management policies and procedures, as well as the ongoing review of the implementation of these policies and procedures.  Additionally, we have processes and controls in place that are designed to monitor and accurately report hedging activities and positions.  The policies, procedures, processes and controls in place may not always function as planned and cannot eliminate all the risks associated with these activities, including unauthorized hedging activity, or improper reporting thereof, by our employees in violation of our existing risk management policies and procedures.  For example, we hedge the expected needs of our wholesale and retail customers, but unexpected changes due to weather, natural disasters, consumer behavior, market constraints or other factors could cause us to purchase electricity to meet unexpected demand in periods of high wholesale market prices or resell excess electricity into the wholesale market in periods of low prices.  As a result of these and other factors, the impacts of our commodity hedging activities and risk management decisions may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 23 Based on economic and other considerations, including our available liquidity, we may not be able to, or we may decide not to, hedge the entire exposure of our operations to commodity price risk.  To the extent we do not hedge against commodity price risk and applicable commodity prices change in ways adverse to us, we could be materially and adversely affected.  To the extent we do hedge against commodity price risk, those hedges may ultimately prove to be ineffective.  Additionally, there may be changes to existing laws or regulations that could significantly impact our ability to effectively hedge, which may have a material adverse effect on us. With the continued tightening of credit markets that began in 2008 and expansion of regulatory oversight through various financial reforms, there has been a decline in the number of market participants in the wholesale energy commodities markets, resulting in less liquidity.  Notably, participation by financial institutions and other intermediaries (including investment banks) in such markets has declined.  Extended declines in market liquidity could adversely affect our ability to hedge our financial exposure to desired levels. To the extent we engage in hedging and risk management, and power purchase agreement activities, we are exposed to the credit risk that counterparties that owe us money, energy or other commodities as a result of these activities will not perform their obligations to us.  Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we could be forced to enter into alternative hedging arrangements or honor the underlying commitment at then-current market prices.  Additionally, our counterparties may seek bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 or liquidation under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code.  Our credit risk may be exacerbated to the extent collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount due to us.  There can be no assurance that any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of our financial assets would not materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  In such event, we could incur losses or forgo expected gains in addition to amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties.  Market participants in the ISOs/RTOs in which we operate are also exposed to risks that another market participant may default on its obligations to pay such ISO/RTO for electricity or services taken, in which case such costs, to the extent not offset by posted security and other protections available to such ISO/RTO, may be allocated to various non-defaulting ISO/RTO market participants, including us. We do not apply hedge accounting to our commodity derivative transactions, which may cause increased volatility in our quarterly and annual financial results. We engage in economic hedging activities to manage our exposure related to commodity price fluctuations through the use of financial and physical derivative contracts for commodities.  These derivatives are accounted for in accordance with GAAP, which requires that we record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value with changes in fair value immediately recognized in earnings as unrealized gains or losses.  GAAP permits an entity to designate qualifying derivative contracts as normal purchases and sales.  If designated, those contracts are not recorded at fair value.  GAAP also permits an entity to designate qualifying derivative contracts in a hedge accounting relationship.  If a hedge accounting relationship is used, a significant portion of the changes in fair value is not immediately recognized in earnings.  We have elected not to apply hedge accounting to our commodity contracts, and we have designated contracts as normal purchases and sales in only limited cases, such as certain retail sales contract portfolios.  As a result, our quarterly and annual financial results in accordance with GAAP are subject to significant fluctuations caused by changes in forward commodity prices. Competition, changes in market structure, and/or state or federal interference in the wholesale and retail power markets, together with subsidized generation, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our generation and competitive retail businesses rely on a competitive wholesale marketplace.  The competitive wholesale marketplace may be undermined by changes in market structure and out-of-market subsidies provided by federal or state entities, including bailouts of uneconomic plants, imports of power from Canada, renewable mandates or subsidies, as well as out-of-market payments to new generators.  Multiple potential changes are currently being evaluated by the PUCT and the Texas legislature for the ERCOT market, including the PCM that would align a required reliability standard with resource availability during higher-risk system conditions, the ultimate resolution of which is unknown. 24 Our power generation business competes with other non-utility generators, regulated utilities, unregulated subsidiaries of regulated utilities, other energy service companies and financial institutions in the sale of electric energy, capacity and ancillary services, as well as in the procurement of fuel, transmission and transportation services.  Moreover, aggregate demand for power may be met by generation capacity based on several competing technologies, as well as power generating facilities fueled by alternative or renewable energy sources, including hydroelectric power, synthetic fuels, solar, wind, wood, geothermal, waste heat and solid waste sources.  Regulatory initiatives designed to enhance and/or subsidize renewable generation increases competition from these types of facilities and out-of-market subsidies to existing or new generation can undermine the competitive wholesale marketplace, which can lead to premature retirement of existing facilities, including those owned by us. We also compete against other energy merchants on the basis of our relative operating skills, financial position and access to credit sources.  Electric energy customers, wholesale energy suppliers and transporters often seek financial guarantees, credit support such as letters of credit and other assurances that their energy contracts will be satisfied.  Companies with which we compete may have greater resources or experience in these areas.  Over time, some of our plants may become unable to compete because of subsidized generation, including public utility commission supported power purchase agreements, and the construction of new plants.  Such new plants could have a number of advantages including more efficient equipment and newer technology that could result in fewer emissions or more advantageous locations on the electric transmission system.  Additionally, these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new laws and regulations because of the newer technology utilized in their facilities or the additional resources derived from owning more efficient facilities. Other factors may contribute to increased competition in wholesale power markets.  We expect that we will continue to face intense competition from numerous companies, including new entrants or consolidation of existing competitors, in the industry.  Certain federal and state entities in jurisdictions in which we operate have either enacted or are considering regulations or legislation to subsidize otherwise uneconomic plants and attempt to incentivize, including through certain tax benefits, the construction and development of additional renewable resources as well as increases in energy efficiency investments.  For example, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 contains a number of tax credits and incentives relating to renewable projects and clean energy technologies such as nuclear energy.  New entrants or existing competitors may find it more economical to develop new renewable projects or invest in clean energy technologies in which we would like to invest.  Subsidies (or increases thereto) to our competitors could result in increased competition for us, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our retail marketing efforts compete for customers in a competitive environment, which impacts the margins that we can earn on the volumes we are able to serve.  Further, with retail competition, it is easier for residential customers where we serve load to switch to and from competitive electricity generation suppliers for their energy needs.  The volatility and uncertainty that results from such mobility may have material adverse effects on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  For example, if fewer customers switch to another supplier than anticipated, the load we must serve will be greater than anticipated and, if market prices of fuel have increased, our costs will increase more than expected due to the need to go to the market to cover the incremental supply obligation.  If more customers switch to another supplier than anticipated, the load we must serve will be lower than anticipated and, if market prices of electricity have decreased, our operating results could suffer. Our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by energy market participants continuing to construct new generation facilities or expanding or enhancing existing generation facilities despite relatively low power prices and such additional generation capacity results in a reduction in wholesale power prices. Given the overall attractiveness of certain of the markets in which we operate and certain tax benefits associated with renewable energy, among other matters, energy market participants have continued to construct new generation facilities or invest in enhancements or expansions of existing generation facilities despite relatively low wholesale power prices.  Assuming this market dynamic continues, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if such additional generation capacity results in an over-supply of electricity that causes a reduction in wholesale power prices.  Additionally, new or existing market participants without, or with less, fossil fuel operations may gain additional market share, or reduce our market share, due to evolving expectations and sentiments of key stakeholders, government, and regulatory authorities regarding our operations and activities. 25 Economic downturns would likely have a material adverse effect on our businesses. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by sustained downturns or sluggishness in the economy, including lower prices for power, generation capacity and natural gas, which can fluctuate substantially.  Increased unemployment of residential customers and decreased demand for products and services by commercial and industrial customers resulting from an economic downturn could lead to declines in the demand for energy and an increase in the number of uncollectible customer balances, which would negatively impact our overall sales and cash flows.  The convergence of current global conditions, including sustained inflation, rising interest rates, and the geopolitical climate, has and could lead to, or accelerate or exacerbate the occurrence of, a significant economic downturn, as well as changes in consumer and counterparty behavior, higher costs of capital, decreases in the value of our existing long-dated contracts, commodity price increases and volatility, supply chain shortages, and other adverse impacts to our business.  Additionally, prolonged economic downturns that negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could result in future material impairment charges to write down the carrying value of certain assets to their respective fair values. Our liquidity needs could be difficult to satisfy, particularly during times of uncertainty in the financial markets or during times of significant fluctuation in commodity prices, and we may be unable to access capital on favorable terms or at all in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on us.  We currently maintain non-investment grade credit ratings that could negatively affect our ability to access capital on favorable terms or result in higher collateral requirements, particularly if our credit ratings were to be downgraded in the future. Our businesses are capital intensive.  In general, we rely on access to financial markets and credit facilities as a significant source of liquidity for our capital requirements, hedging transactions and other obligations not satisfied by cash-on-hand or operating cash flows.  The inability to raise capital or to access credit facilities, particularly on favorable terms, could adversely impact our liquidity and our ability to meet our obligations or sustain and grow our businesses and could increase capital costs and collateral requirements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our access to capital and the cost and other terms of acquiring capital are dependent upon, and could be adversely impacted by, various factors, including: • general economic and capital markets conditions, including changes in financial markets that reduce available liquidity or the ability to obtain or renew credit facilities on favorable terms or at all; • conditions and economic weakness in the U.S. power markets; • regulatory developments; • changes in interest rates; • a deterioration, or perceived deterioration, of our creditworthiness, enterprise value or financial or operating results; • a downgrade of Vistra's or its applicable subsidiaries' credit ratings, or credit ratings of its issuances; • our level of indebtedness and compliance with covenants in our debt agreements; • our ability to meet our sustainability targets in our secured credit facilities; • a deterioration of the creditworthiness or bankruptcy of one or more lenders or counterparties under our credit facilities that affects the ability of such lender(s) to make loans to us; • credit, security, or collateral requirements, including those relating to volatility in commodity prices; • general credit availability from banks or other lenders for us and our industry peers; • investor and lender confidence in and sentiment of the industry, our business, and the wholesale electricity markets in which we operate; • a material breakdown in or oversight in effectuating our risk management procedures; • the occurrence of changes in our businesses; • disruptions, constraints, or inefficiencies in the continued reliable operation of our generation facilities and ESSs; and • changes in or the operation of provisions of tax and regulatory laws. 26 There are also increasing financial risks for companies that own and operate fossil fuel generation as institutional lenders or other sources of capital have become more attentive to sustainable financing practices and some of them may seek commitments on emission reduction targets or expected use or proceeds when providing funding to, or decline to provide funding for companies who produce or utilize fossil fuel energy or that have higher levels of GHG emissions.  We amended our Vistra Operations Credit Agreement to build in Sustainability Adjustments.  These adjustments use baseline values from KPI Metrics and provide for decreases in the applicable credit spread adjustments and commitment fee rates if our reported metrics are a certain percentage below the baseline values, adjusted on a year to year basis.  Conversely, if our reported metrics are a certain percentage above the baseline values, adjusted on a year to year basis, the applicable credit spread adjustments and fee rates are increased.  Building in these adjustments to our credit agreement helps to show lenders we are committed to lowering our GHG emissions, but failing to meet the targets on a regular basis could be viewed negatively by such lenders.  Additionally, the lending practices of institutional lenders have been the subject of intensive lobbying efforts in recent years, oftentimes public in nature, by environmental activists and others concerned about climate change not to provide funding for companies in the broader energy sector.  Limitation on our access to, or increases in our cost of, capital could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, we currently maintain non-investment grade credit ratings.  As a result, we may not be able to access capital on terms (financial or otherwise) as favorable as companies that maintain investment-grade credit ratings or we may be unable to access capital at all at times when the credit markets tighten.  In addition, due to our non-investment grade credit ratings, counterparties request collateral support (including cash or letters of credit) in order to enter into certain transactions with us. A downgrade in long-term debt ratings generally causes borrowing costs to increase and the potential pool of investors to shrink and could trigger liquidity demands pursuant to contractual arrangements.  Future transactions by Vistra or any of its subsidiaries, including the issuance of additional debt, could result in a temporary or permanent downgrade in our credit ratings. Our indebtedness and the phaseout of LIBOR, or the replacement of LIBOR with a different reference rate, could adversely affect our ability in the future to raise additional capital to fund our operations.  It could also expose us to the risk of increased interest rates and limit our ability to react to changes in the economy, or our industry, as well as impact our cash available for distribution. As of December 31, 2022, we had approximately $13.0 billion of total indebtedness and approximately $12.6 billion of indebtedness net of cash.  Our debt could have negative consequences for our financial condition including: • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • requiring a significant portion of our cash flows from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock or to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; • limiting our ability to enter into long-term power sales or fuel purchases which require credit support; • limiting our ability to fund operations or future acquisitions; • limiting our ability to repurchase shares under the share repurchase program; • restricting our ability to make distributions or pay dividends with respect to our capital stock and the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us, in light of restricted payment and other financial covenants in our credit facilities and other financing agreements; • inhibiting the growth of our stock price; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under the Vistra Operations Credit Facilities, are at variable rates of interest, only a portion of which are hedged; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital including collateral postings, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may have less debt. We may not be successful in obtaining additional capital for these or other reasons.  Furthermore, we may be unable to refinance or replace our existing indebtedness on favorable terms or at all upon the expiration or termination thereof.  Our failure to obtain additional capital or enter into new or replacement financing arrangements when due may constitute a default under such existing indebtedness and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 27 In July 2017, the United Kingdom's Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates LIBOR, announced that it intends to phase out LIBOR by the end of 2021.  LIBOR is the interest rate benchmark used as a reference rate on a portion of our variable rate debt, including our revolving credit facility and interest rate swaps.  In November 2020, ICE Benchmark Administration (IBA), the administrator of LIBOR, with the support of the U.S. Federal Reserve and the United Kingdom's Financial Conduct Authority, announced plans to consult on ceasing publication of USD LIBOR on December 31, 2021 for only the one-week and two-month USD LIBOR tenors, and on June 30, 2023 for all other USD LIBOR tenors.  While this announcement extends the transition period to June 2023, the U.S. Federal Reserve concurrently issued a statement advising banks to stop new USD LIBOR issuances by the end of 2021.  In light of these announcements, the future of LIBOR at this time is uncertain and any changes in the methods by which LIBOR is determined or regulatory activity related to LIBOR's phaseout could cause LIBOR to perform differently than in the past or cease to exist.  Over the course of the last year, in anticipation of LIBOR ceasing to exist for affected tenors, we amended our revolving credit facilities to implement a change to SOFR as our primary reference rate.  For our Vistra Operations Credit Agreement, we made this change in conjunction with an extension amendment.  Certain lenders chose not to extend their commitments past the original maturity date.  As a result, the commitments of those lenders remain subject to a LIBOR based rate.  However, unless extended, those commitments, in the amount of $200 million, shall terminate on June 14, 2023 and, assuming no extension of such commitments, at such time all of our revolving credit facilities shall be SOFR based.  However, our Term Loan B-3 Facility, with a December 31, 2025 maturity date, remains LIBOR-based and may be subject to the LIBOR transition risks set forth above. Further, certain of our agreements which utilize LIBOR as the referenced rate are governed by New York law, and certain of these contracts do not contain any fallback provisions or otherwise contain fallback provisions that lead to replacement rate based on LIBOR or require polling for interbank rates.  To the extent that we are unsuccessful in our efforts to amend such contracts prior to the LIBOR transition, we anticipate that the applicable New York legislation would apply to such contracts and would provide a replacement rate for inclusion in such contracts. Notwithstanding our efforts, these changes may result in interest rates and/or payments that do not correlate over time with the interest rates and/or payments that would have been made on our obligations if LIBOR was available in its current form.  Any new contracts would need to reference an alternative benchmark rate or include suggested fallback language.  Accordingly, we could be exposed to increased costs with respect to our variable rate debt, which could have an adverse impact on extensions of our credit and/or we might not be fully hedged on the variable rate exposure on our swapped indebtedness.  Any such increased costs or exposure could increase our cost of capital and have a material adverse effect on us. The agreements and instruments governing our debt, including the Vistra Operations Credit Facilities and indentures, contain restrictions and limitations that could affect our ability to operate our business, or liquidity, and results of operations, and any failure to comply with these restrictions could have a material adverse effect on us. The agreements and instruments governing our debt, including the Vistra Operations Credit Facilities  and indentures, contain restrictions that could adversely affect us by limiting our ability to operate our businesses and plan for, or react to, market conditions or to meet our capital needs and could result in an event of default under the Vistra Operations Credit Facilities and/or indentures.  The Vistra Operations Credit Facilities and indentures contain events of default customary for financings of this type.  If we fail to comply with the covenants in the Vistra Operations Credit Facilities and/or indentures and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, or a default exists and is continuing, the lenders under such agreements or notes, as the case may be, could give notice and declare outstanding borrowings thereunder immediately due and payable.  The breach of any covenants or obligations in certain agreements and instruments governing our debt, including the Vistra Operations Credit Facilities and indentures, not otherwise waived or amended, could result in a default under the applicable debt obligations and could trigger acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger cross defaults under other agreements governing our debt, and any such acceleration of outstanding borrowings could have a material adverse effect on us. 28 Certain of our obligations are required to be secured by letters of credit, surety bonds or cash, which increase our costs.  If we are unable to provide such security, it may restrict our ability to conduct our business, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We undertake certain hedging and commodity activities and enter into certain financing arrangements with various counterparties that require cash collateral or the posting of letters of credit which are at risk of being drawn down in the event we default on our obligations.  We currently use margin deposits, prepayments, surety bonds and letters of credit as credit support for commodity procurement and risk management activities.  Future cash collateral requirements may increase based on the extent of our involvement in standard contracts and movements in commodity prices, and also based on our credit ratings and the general perception of creditworthiness in the markets in which we operate.  In the case of commodity arrangements, the amount of such credit support that must be provided typically is based on the difference between the price of the commodity in a given contract and the market price of the commodity.  Significant movements in market prices can result in our being required to provide cash collateral and letters of credit in very large amounts.  The effectiveness of our strategy may be dependent on the amount of collateral available to enter into or maintain these contracts, and liquidity requirements may be greater than we anticipate or will be able to meet.  Without a sufficient amount of working capital or other sources of available liquidity to post as collateral, we may not be able to manage price volatility effectively or to implement our strategy.  A material increase in the amount of letters of credit or cash collateral required to be provided to our counterparties may have a material adverse effect on us. We may not be able to complete future acquisitions on favorable terms or at all, successfully integrate future acquisitions into our business, or effectively identify and invest in value-creating businesses, assets or projects, which could result in unanticipated expenses and losses or otherwise hinder or delay our growth strategy. As part of our growth strategy, including our desire to grow our retail platform, we may pursue acquisitions of assets or operating entities.  This strategy depends on the Company's ability to successfully identify and evaluate acquisition opportunities and consummate acquisitions on favorable terms.  Our ability to continue to implement this component of our growth strategy will be limited by our ability to identify appropriate acquisition or joint venture candidates and our financial resources, including available cash and access to capital.  In addition, the Company will compete with other companies for these limited acquisition opportunities, which may increase the Company's cost of making acquisitions or limit the Company’s ability to make acquisitions at all.  Any expense incurred in completing acquisitions or entering into joint ventures, the time it takes to integrate an acquisition or our failure to integrate acquired businesses successfully could result in unanticipated expenses and losses.  Furthermore, we may not be able to fully realize the anticipated benefits from any future acquisitions or joint ventures we may pursue.  In addition, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may involve unknown risks, result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenses, and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the execution of our business strategy.  If the Company is unable to identify and consummate future acquisitions, it may impede the Company's ability to execute its growth strategy. 29 Our ability to achieve the expected growth of our Vistra Zero portfolio, consisting of our solar generation, ESS, and other renewables development projects, is subject to substantial capital requirements and other significant uncertainties. We have a substantial capital allocation plan intended for investments in renewable assets, including solar development projects and ESSs.  As part of our business strategy, we plan to continually assess potential strategic acquisitions or investments in renewable assets, emerging technologies and related projects.  Notably, the Company's ability to successfully develop our current renewables projects, or in the future acquire additional renewable assets, may be impacted by the demand for and viability of renewable assets generally, which may vary depending on availability of projects and financing, as well as public policy, financial and tax mechanisms implemented at the state and federal levels to support the development of renewable assets.  Various factors could result in increased costs or result in delays or cancellation of our current or future renewable projects, or the loss of, or declines in the value of, our investments in projects including, but not limited to, risks relating to siting, financing, engineering and construction, permitting, interconnection requests, federal and state regulatory approvals, new legislation or regulatory changes impacting the industry, commissioning delays, import tariffs, changes to federal income tax laws, economic events or factors, environmental and community concerns, availability of or requirements for additional funding, enhanced competition, or the potential for termination of the power sales contract as a result of a failure to meet certain milestones.  Further, the recent proliferation of renewable projects has resulted in a large volume of interconnection requests submitted to grid operators, including the markets in which we operate, resulting in significant delays to the approval process and estimated completion dates for our projects and others.  Additionally, the increased demand for construction of renewables projects, such as ESSs and solar projects, and other labor market and supply chain constraints have resulted, and may continue to result, in limited availability of qualified specialists, contractors, and necessary services or materials, leading to delays in and higher costs for the development and construction of our current and future planned projects.  Should any of these factors occur, our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected, or our future growth opportunities may not be realized as anticipated. While certain of our subsidiaries are in various stages of developing and constructing solar generation facilities and ESSs and certain of these projects have signed long-term contracts or made similar arrangements for the sale of electricity, in other cases, our subsidiaries may enter into obligations in the development process even though the subsidiaries have not yet secured power purchase arrangements or other important elements for a successful project.  If the project does not proceed as planned, our subsidiaries may remain obligated for certain liabilities even though the project will not be completed.  Development is inherently uncertain and we may forgo certain development opportunities and we may undertake significant development costs before determining that we will not proceed with a particular project.  We believe that capitalized costs for projects under development are recoverable; however, there can be no assurance that any individual project will be completed and reach commercial operation.  If these development efforts are not successful, we may abandon a project under development and write off the costs incurred in connection with such project and could incur additional losses associated with any related contingent liabilities. Circumstances associated with potential divestitures could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In evaluating our business and the strategic fit of our various assets, we may determine to sell one or more of such assets.  Despite a decision to divest an asset, we may encounter difficulty in finding a buyer willing to purchase the asset at an acceptable price and on acceptable terms and in a timely manner.  In addition, a prospective buyer may have difficulty obtaining financing.  Divestitures could involve additional risks, including: • difficulties in the separation of operations and personnel; • the need to provide significant ongoing post-closing transition support to a buyer; • management's attention may be temporarily diverted; • the retention of certain current or future liabilities in order to induce a buyer to complete a divestiture; • the obligation to indemnify or reimburse a buyer for certain past liabilities of a divested asset; • the disruption of our business; and • potential loss of key employees. We may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we may encounter in divesting any asset, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 30 If our goodwill, intangible assets, or long-lived assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. We have significant goodwill, intangible assets and long-lived assets recorded on our balance sheet.  In accordance with U.S. GAAP, goodwill and non-amortizing intangible assets are required to be tested for impairment at least annually.  Additionally, we review goodwill, our intangible assets and long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable.  Factors that may be considered include a decline in future cash flows, slower growth rates in the energy industry, and a sustained decrease in the price of our common stock. We performed our annual assessment of goodwill and non-amortizing intangibles in the fourth quarter of 2022 and determined that no material impairment was required.  However, impairment assessments will be performed in future periods and may result in an impairment loss, which could be material. Issuances or acquisitions of our common stock, or sales or dispositions of our common stock by stockholders, that result in an ownership change as defined in Internal Revenue Code (IRC) § 382 could further limit our ability to use certain tax attributes and our federal net operating losses to offset our future taxable income. If an "ownership change," as defined in Section 382 of the IRC (IRC §382) occurs, the amount of NOLs that could be used in any one year following such ownership change could be substantially limited.  In general, an "ownership change" would occur when there is a greater than 50 percentage point increase in ownership of a company's stock by stockholders, each of which owns (or is deemed to own under IRC §382) 5 percent or more of such company's stock.  Given IRC §382's broad definition, an ownership change could be the unintended consequence of otherwise normal market trading in our stock that is outside our control.  Vistra acquired NOLs from its merger with Dynegy; however, Vistra's use of such attributes is limited under IRC §382 because the merger constituted an "ownership change" with respect to Dynegy.  If there is an "ownership change" with respect to Vistra (including by the normal trading activity of greater than 5% stockholders), the utilization of all NOLs existing at that time would be subject to additional annual limitations based upon a formula provided under IRC §382 that is based on the fair market value of the Company and prevailing interest rates at the time of the ownership change.  In addition, any ownership change with respect to Vistra could result in additional limitations on our ability to use certain tax attributes, including depreciation, existing at the time of any such ownership change and have an impact on our tax liabilities and on our obligations under the TRA. Tax legislation initiatives or challenges to our tax positions, or potential future legislation or the imposition of new or increased taxes or fees, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the U.S. federal, state and local governments.  From time to time, legislative measures may be enacted that could adversely affect our overall tax positions regarding income or other taxes.  There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these legislative measures.  The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA), enacted December 22, 2017, and the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), enacted August 16, 2022, both introduced significant changes to current U.S. federal tax law.  For example, the IRA includes the enactment of several new proposals, including, but not limited to (i) a corporate alternative minimum tax based on book income and (ii) additional requirements to qualify for enhanced renewable energy tax credits.  These changes are complex and continue to be the subject of additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service.  In addition, the reaction to the federal tax changes by the individual states continues to evolve.  Our interpretations and assumptions around U.S. tax reform may evolve in future periods as further administrative guidance and regulations are issued, which may materially affect our effective tax rate or tax payments. U.S. federal, state and local tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations.  There can be no assurance that our tax positions will be sustained if challenged by relevant tax authorities and if not sustained, there could be a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. U.S. federal income tax reform and changes in other tax laws could adversely affect us.  Additionally, states in which we operate or own assets may impose new or increased taxes or fees on various aspects of our operations.  The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals and other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws or the imposition of new or increased taxes or fees could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 31 We are required to pay the holders of TRA Rights for certain tax benefits, which amounts could be substantial. On the Effective Date, we entered into the TRA with American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC, as the transfer agent.  Pursuant to the TRA, we issued beneficial interests in the rights to receive payments under the TRA (TRA Rights) to the first lien creditors of our Predecessor to be held in escrow for the benefit of the first lien creditors of our Predecessor entitled to receive such TRA Rights under the Plan of Reorganization.  Our financial statements reflect a liability of $522 million as of December 31, 2022 related to these future payment obligations (see Note 7 to the Financial Statements).  This amount is based on certain assumptions as described more fully in the notes to the financial statements and the actual payments made under the TRA could be materially different than this estimate. The TRA generally provides for the payment by us to the holders of TRA Rights of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax that we and our subsidiaries actually realize as a result of our use of (a) the tax basis step up attributable to the PrefCo Preferred Stock Sale, (b) the entire tax basis of the assets acquired as a result of the purchase and sale agreement, dated as of November 25, 2015 by and between La Frontera Ventures, LLC and Luminant, and (c) tax benefits related to imputed interest deemed to be paid by us as a result of payments under the TRA, plus interest accruing from the due date of the applicable tax return.  The amount and timing of any payments under the TRA will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the amount and timing of the taxable income we generate in the future and the tax rate then applicable, our use of loss carryovers and the portion of our payments under the TRA constituting imputed interest. Although we are not aware of any issue that would cause the IRS to challenge the tax benefits that are the subject of the TRA, recipients of the payments under the TRA will not be required to reimburse us for any payments previously made if such tax benefits are subsequently disallowed.  As a result, in such circumstances, Vistra could make payments under the TRA that are greater than its actual cash tax savings.  Any amount of excess payment can be used to reduce future TRA payments, but cannot be immediately recouped, which could adversely affect our liquidity. Because Vistra is a holding company with no operations of its own, its ability to make payments under the TRA is dependent on the ability of its subsidiaries to make distributions to it.  To the extent that Vistra is unable to make payments under the TRA because of the inability of its subsidiaries to make distributions to us for any reason, such payments will be deferred and will accrue interest until paid, which could adversely affect our results of operations and could also affect our liquidity in periods in which such payments are made. The payments we will be required to make under the TRA could be substantial. We may be required to make an early termination payment to the holders of TRA Rights under the TRA. The TRA provides that, in the event that Vistra breaches any of its material obligations under the TRA, or upon certain mergers, asset sales, or other forms of business combination or certain other changes of control, the transfer agent under the TRA may treat such event as an early termination of the TRA, in which case Vistra would be required to make an immediate payment to the holders of the TRA Rights equal to the present value (at a discount rate equal to LIBOR plus 100 basis points) of the anticipated future tax benefits based on certain valuation assumptions. As a result, upon any such breach or change of control, we could be required to make a lump sum payment under the TRA before we realize any actual cash tax savings and such lump sum payment could be greater than our future actual cash tax savings. The aggregate amount of these accelerated payments could be materially more than our estimated liability for payments made under the TRA set forth in our financial statements, which could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity. 32 Regulatory and Legislative Risks Our businesses are subject to ongoing complex governmental regulations and legislation that have adversely impacted, and may in the future adversely impact, our businesses, results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and cash flows. Our businesses operate in changing market environments influenced by various state and federal legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding the restructuring of the energy industry, including competition in power generation and sale of electricity, natural gas, carbon offsets and renewable energy certificates, and other commodities.  Although we attempt to comply with changing legislative and regulatory requirements, there is a risk that we will fail to adapt to any such changes successfully or on a timely basis.  Compliance with, or changes to, the requirements under these legal and regulatory regimes, including those proposed or implemented under the Biden administration, may adversely impact our businesses, results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and cash flows. Our businesses are subject to numerous state and federal laws (including, but not limited to, PURA, the Federal Power Act, the Natural Gas Policy Act, the Atomic Energy Act, the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, the Clean Air Act (CAA), the Clean Water Act (CWA), the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and the Consumer Protection Act and the Telephone Consumer Protection Act), changing governmental policy and regulatory actions (including those of the FERC, the NERC, the RCT, the MSHA, the EPA, the NRC, the DOJ, the FTC, the CFTC, state public utility commissions and state environmental regulatory agencies), and the rules, guidelines and protocols of ERCOT, CAISO, ISO-NE, MISO, NYISO and PJM with respect to various matters, including, but not limited to, market structure and design, operation of nuclear generation facilities, construction and operation of other generation facilities, development, operation and reclamation of lignite mines, recovery of costs and investments, decommissioning costs, market behavior rules, present or prospective wholesale and retail competition, administrative pricing mechanisms (and adjustments thereto), rates for wholesale sales of electricity, mandatory reliability standards and environmental matters.  We, along with other market participants, are subject to electricity pricing constraints and market behavior and other competition-related rules and regulations.  Additionally, Ambit’s direct selling business (i) could be found by federal, state or foreign regulators not to be in compliance with applicable law or regulations, which may lead to our inability to obtain or maintain a license, permit, or similar certification and (ii) may be required to alter its compensation practices in order to comply with applicable federal or state law or regulations.  Changes in, revisions to, or reinterpretations of, existing laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and cash flows. Extreme weather events have resulted, and in the future may result, in efforts by both federal and state government and regulatory agencies to investigate and determine the causes of such events.  For example, as a result of Winter Storm Uri, we received a civil investigative demand from the Attorney General of Texas as well as a request for information from ERCOT, NERC, and other regulatory bodies related to this event.  The recent Winter Storm Elliott has also led to regulatory requests for information and notices of investigation by NERC, FERC, regional reliability entities, and independent market monitors for regions across the country.  Such efforts have resulted, and in the future may result, in changes in laws or regulations that impact our industry and businesses including, but not limited to, additional requirements for winterization of various facets of the electricity supply chain including generation, transmission, and fuel supply; improvements in coordination among the various participants in the electricity supply chain during any future event; restrictions or limitations on the types of plans permitted to be offered to customers; potential revisions to the method or calculation of market compensation and incentives relating to the continued operation of assets that only run periodically, including during extreme weather events or other times of scarcity; and other potential legislative and regulatory corrective actions that may be taken.  Previously announced or future legal proceedings, regulatory actions, investigations, or other administrative proceedings involving market participants may lead to adverse determinations or other findings of violations of laws, rules or regulations, any of which may impact the ability of market participants to satisfy, in whole or in part, their respective obligations.  The Texas Legislature, the PUCT, and ERCOT have implemented new requirements and continue to consider future market design and other rule changes in response to Winter Storm Uri and other extreme weather events. 33 Finally, the regulatory environment has undergone significant changes in the last several years due to state and federal policies affecting wholesale and retail competition and the creation of incentives for the addition of large amounts of new renewable generation.  For example, changes to, or development of, legislation that requires the use of clean renewable and alternate fuel sources or mandate the implementation of energy conservation programs that require the implementation of new technologies, could increase our capital expenditures and/or impact our financial condition.  Additionally, in some retail energy markets, state legislators, government agencies and other interested parties have made proposals to change the use of market-based pricing, re-regulate areas of these markets that have previously been competitive, or permit electricity delivery companies to construct or acquire generating facilities.  Other proposals to re-regulate the retail energy industry may be made, and legislative or other actions affecting electricity and natural gas deregulation or restructuring process may be delayed, discontinued or reversed in states in which we currently operate or may in the future operate.  If such changes were to be enacted by a regulatory body, we may lose customers, incur higher costs and/or find it more difficult to acquire new customers.  These changes are ongoing, and we cannot predict the future design of the wholesale power markets or the ultimate effect that the changing regulatory environment will have on our business. We are required to obtain, and to comply with, government permits and approvals. We are required to obtain, and to comply with, numerous permits and licenses from federal, state and local governmental agencies.  The process of obtaining and renewing necessary permits and licenses can be lengthy and complex and can sometimes result in the establishment of conditions that make the project or activity for which the permit or license was sought unprofitable or otherwise unattractive.  In addition, such permits or licenses may be subject to denial, revocation or modification under various circumstances.  Failure to obtain or comply with the conditions of permits or licenses, or failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations, may result in the delay or temporary suspension of our operations and electricity sales or the curtailment of our delivery of electricity to our customers and may subject us to penalties and other sanctions.  Although various regulators routinely renew existing permits and licenses, renewal of our existing permits or licenses could be denied or jeopardized by various factors, including (a) failure to provide adequate financial assurance for closure, (b) failure to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations or permit conditions, (c) local community, political or other opposition and (d) executive, legislative or regulatory action. Our inability to procure and comply with the permits and licenses required for our operations, or the cost to us of such procurement or compliance, could have a material adverse effect on us.  In addition, new environmental legislation or regulations, if enacted, or changed interpretations of existing laws, may cause activities at our facilities to need to be changed to avoid violating applicable laws and regulations or elicit claims that historical activities at our facilities violated applicable laws and regulations.  In addition to the possible imposition of fines in the case of any such violations, we may be required to undertake significant capital investments and obtain additional operating permits or licenses, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our cost of compliance with existing and new environmental laws could have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to extensive environmental regulation by governmental authorities, including federal and state environmental agencies and/or attorneys general.  We may incur significant additional costs beyond those currently contemplated to comply with these regulatory requirements.  If we fail to comply with these regulatory requirements, we could be subject to administrative, civil or criminal liabilities and fines.  Existing environmental regulations could be revised or reinterpreted, new laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to us or our facilities, and future changes in environmental laws and regulations could occur, including potential regulatory and enforcement developments related to air emissions and CCR, all of which could result in significant additional costs beyond those currently contemplated to comply with existing requirements.  Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on us. The EPA has recently finalized or proposed several regulatory actions establishing new requirements for control of certain emissions from sources, including electricity generation facilities.  In the future, the EPA may also propose and finalize additional regulatory actions that may adversely affect our existing generation facilities or our ability to cost-effectively develop new generation facilities.  There is no assurance that the currently installed emissions control equipment at our lignite, coal and/or natural gas-fueled generation facilities will satisfy the requirements under any future EPA or state environmental regulations.  Some of the recent regulatory actions, such as the EPA's proposed Cross-State Air Pollution Rule Update, the ACE rule and any proposed or future actions to replace the ACE rule, and actions under the Regional Haze program, could require us to install significant additional control equipment, resulting in potentially material costs of compliance for our generation units, including capital expenditures, higher operating and fuel costs and potential production curtailments or plant retirements.  These costs or operation impacts could have a material adverse effect on us. 34 We may not be able to obtain or maintain all required environmental regulatory approvals.  If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals, if we fail to obtain, maintain or comply with any such approval or if an approval is retroactively disallowed or adversely modified, the operation of our generation facilities could be stopped, disrupted, curtailed or modified or become subject to additional costs.  Any such stoppage, disruption, curtailment, modification or additional costs could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, we may be responsible for any on-site liabilities associated with the environmental condition of facilities that we have acquired, leased, developed or sold, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are now known or unknown.  In connection with certain acquisitions and sales of assets, we may obtain, or be required to provide, indemnification against certain environmental liabilities.  Another party could, depending on the circumstances, assert an environmental claim against us or fail to meet its indemnification obligations to us, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We could be materially and adversely affected if new federal or state legislation or regulations are adopted to address global climate change that could require efforts that exceed or are more expensive than our currently planned initiatives or if we are subject to lawsuits for alleged damage to persons or property resulting from greenhouse gas emissions. There is attention and interest nationally and internationally about global climate change and how GHG emissions, such as CO 2 , contribute to global climate change.  Over the last several years, the U.S. Congress has considered and debated several proposals intended to address climate change using different approaches, including a cap on carbon emissions with emitters allowed to trade unused emission allowances (cap-and-trade), a tax on carbon or GHG emissions, incentives for the development of low-carbon technology and federal renewable portfolio standards.  In July 2019, the EPA finalized the ACE rule that developed emissions guidelines that states must use when developing plans to regulate GHG emissions from existing coal-fueled electric generating units.  In January 2021, the ACE rule was vacated by the D.C. Circuit Court and remanded to the EPA for further consideration in accordance with the court's ruling.   The D.C. Circuit Court's decision was appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court.  In June 2022, the U.S. Supreme Court issued its decision in West Virginia v. EPA , in which it held that the EPA does not have the authority to apply generation shifting in the regulation of GHG emissions.  The judgment reversed the D.C. Circuit Court's decision and remanded the case for further proceedings consistent with the U.S. Supreme Court's opinion.  The EPA may develop a more stringent and more encompassing rule to replace the ACE rule in its remand proceeding and has been directed by the Biden Administration to review this rule and others promulgated by the EPA during the Trump Administration.  Prior to the vacatur and remand by the D.C. Circuit Court, states where we operate coal plants (Texas, Illinois and Ohio) had begun the development of their state plans to comply with the ACE rule.  In addition, a number of federal court cases have been filed in recent years asserting damage claims related to GHG emissions, and the results in those proceedings could establish adverse precedent that might apply to companies (including us) that produce GHG emissions.  We could be materially and adversely affected if new federal and/or state legislation or regulations are adopted to address global climate change that could require efforts that exceed or are more expensive than our currently planned initiatives or if we are subject to lawsuits for alleged damage to persons or property resulting from GHG emissions. Additionally, in January 2021, President Biden issued written notification to the United Nations of the U.S.'s intention to rejoin the Paris Agreement, effective in February 2021.  Although the Paris Agreement does not create any binding obligations for nations to limit their GHG emissions, it does include pledges to voluntarily limit or reduce future emissions, and various corporations, investors and U.S. states and local governments have previously pledged to further the goals of the Paris Agreement.  Additionally, the Biden Administration has directed certain agencies to submit a plan to the National Climate Task Force to achieve a carbon-pollution-free electricity sector by 2035.  The Company's plan to transition to clean power generation sources and reduce its GHG emissions may not be completed in this timeframe and we may not otherwise achieve our sustainability and emissions reduction targets as expected.  Accordingly, we may be required to accelerate or change our targets, incur additional expenses, and/or adjust or cease certain operations as a result of newly implemented federal and/or state regulations to reduce future carbon emissions. 35 Luminant's mining operations are subject to RCT oversight. We currently own and operate, or are in the process of reclaiming, various surface lignite coal mines in Texas to provide fuel for our electricity generation facilities.  We also own or lease, and are in the process of reclaiming, multiple waste-to-energy surface facilities in Pennsylvania.  The RCT, which exercises broad authority to regulate reclamation activity, reviews on an ongoing basis whether Luminant is compliant with RCT rules and regulations and whether it has met all the requirements of its mining permits in Texas.  Any new rules and regulations adopted by the RCT or the Department of Interior Office of Surface Mining, which also regulates mining activity nationwide, or any changes in the interpretation of existing rules and regulations, could result in higher compliance costs or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition or cause a revocation of a mining permit.  Any revocation of a mining permit would mean that Luminant would no longer be allowed to mine lignite at the applicable mine to serve its generation facilities. Luminant's lignite mining reclamation activity will require significant resources as existing and retired mining operations are reclaimed over the next several years. In conjunction with Luminant's announcements in 2017 to retire several power generation assets and related mining operations, along with the continuous reclamation activity at its continuing mining operations for its mines related to the Oak Grove generation asset, Luminant is expected to spend a significant amount of money, internal resources and time to complete the required reclamation activities.  For the next five years, Vistra is projected to spend approximately $234 million (on a nominal basis) to achieve its mining reclamation objectives. Litigation, legal proceedings, regulatory investigations or other administrative proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and reputational damage that could have a material adverse effect on us. We are involved in the ordinary course of business in a number of lawsuits involving, among other matters, employment, commercial, and environmental issues, and other claims for injuries and damages.  We evaluate litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses.  Based on these evaluations and estimates, when required by applicable accounting rules, we establish reserves and disclose the relevant litigation claims or legal proceedings, as appropriate.  These evaluations and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a significant amount of judgment.  Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from current evaluations and estimates.  The settlement or resolution of such claims or proceedings may have a material adverse effect on us.  We use appropriate means to contest litigation threatened or filed against us, but the litigation environment poses a significant business risk. We are also involved in the ordinary course of business in regulatory investigations and other administrative proceedings, and we are exposed to the risk that we may become the subject of additional regulatory investigations or administrative proceedings.  While we cannot predict the outcome of any regulatory investigation or administrative proceeding, any such regulatory investigation or administrative proceeding could result in us incurring material penalties and/or other costs and have a materially adverse effect on us. 36 Our retail businesses, which each have REP certifications that are subject to review of the public utility commissions in the states in which we operate, are subject to changing state rules and regulations that could have a material impact on the profitability of our business. The competitiveness of our U.S. retail businesses partially depends on state regulatory policies that establish the structure, rules, terms and conditions on which services are offered to retail customers.  Specifically, the public utility commissions and/or the attorney generals of the various jurisdictions in which the Retail segment operates may at any time initiate an investigation into whether our retail operations comply with certain commission rules or state laws and whether we have met the requirements for REP certification, including financial requirements. These state policies and investigations, which can include controls on the retail rates our retail businesses can charge, the imposition of additional costs on sales, restrictions on our ability to obtain new customers through various marketing channels and disclosure requirements, investigations into whether our retail operations comply with certain commission rules or state laws and whether we have met the requirements for REP certification, including financial requirements, can affect the competitiveness of our retail businesses.  Any removal or revocation of a REP certification would mean that we would no longer be allowed to provide electricity service to retail customers in the applicable jurisdiction, and such decertification could have a material adverse effect on us. Additionally, state or federal imposition of net metering or renewable portfolio standard programs can make it more or less expensive for retail customers to supplement or replace their reliance on grid power.  Our retail businesses may have limited ability to influence development of these state rules, regulations and policies, and our business model may be more or less effective, depending on changes to the regulatory environment. Operational Risks Volatile power supply costs and demand for power have and could in the future adversely affect the financial performance of our retail businesses. Although we are the primary provider of our retail businesses' wholesale electricity supply requirements, our retail businesses purchase a portion of their supply requirements from third parties.  As a result, the financial performance of our retail business depends on their ability to obtain adequate supplies of electric generation from third parties at prices below the prices they charge their customers.  Consequently, our earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected in any period in which the retail businesses' wholesale electricity supply costs rise at a greater rate than the rates they charge to customers.  The price of wholesale electricity supply purchases associated with the retail businesses' energy commitments can be different than that reflected in the rates charged to customers due to, among other factors: • varying supply procurement contracts used and the timing of entering into related contracts; • subsequent changes in the overall price of natural gas; • daily, monthly or seasonal fluctuations in the price of natural gas relative to the 12-month forward prices; • transmission constraints and the Company's ability to move power to our customers; • out-of-market payments, uplifts, or other non-pass through charges, and • changes in market heat rate. The retail businesses' earnings and cash flows could also be adversely affected in any period in which their customers' actual usage of electricity significantly varies from the forecasted usage, which could occur due to, among other factors, weather events, transmission and distribution outages, demand-side management programs, competition and economic conditions, such as Winter Storm Uri in February 2021. Our retail operations are subject to significant competition from other REPs, which could result in a loss of existing customers and the inability to attract new customers. We operate in a very competitive retail market and, as a result, our retail operation faces significant competition for customers.  We believe our brands are viewed favorably in the retail electricity markets in which we operate, but despite our commitment to providing superior customer service and innovative products, customer sentiment toward our brands, including by comparison to our competitors' brands, depends on certain factors beyond our control.  For example, competitor REPs may offer different products, lower electricity prices and other incentives, which, despite our long-standing relationship with many customers, may attract customers away from us.  If we are unable to successfully compete with competitors in the retail market it is possible our retail customer counts could decline, which could have a material adverse effect on us. 37 As we try to grow our retail business and operate our business strategy, we compete with various other REPs that may have certain advantages over us.  For example, in new markets, our principal competitor for new customers may be the incumbent REP, which has the advantage of long-standing relationships with its customers, including well-known brand recognition.  In addition to competition from the incumbent REP, we may face competition from a number of other energy service providers, other energy industry participants, or nationally branded providers of consumer products and services who may develop businesses that will compete with us.  Some of these competitors or potential competitors may be larger than we are or have greater resources or access to capital than we have.  If there is inadequate potential margin in retail electricity markets with substantial competition to overcome the adverse effect of relatively high customer acquisition costs in such markets, it may not be profitable for us to compete in these markets. Our retail operations rely on the infrastructure of local utilities or independent transmission system operators to provide electricity to, and to obtain information about, our customers.  Any infrastructure failure could negatively impact customer satisfaction and could have a material adverse effect on us. The substantial majority of our retail operations depend on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by unaffiliated utilities to deliver the electricity that we sell to our customers.  If transmission capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver electricity may be hindered and we may have to forgo sales or buy more expensive wholesale electricity than is available in the capacity-constrained area or, with respect to capacity performance in PJM and performance incentives in ISO-NE, we may be subject to significant penalties.  For example, during some periods, transmission access is constrained in some areas of the Dallas-Fort Worth metroplex, where we have a significant number of customers.  The cost to provide service to these customers may exceed the cost to provide service to other customers, resulting in lower operating margins.  In addition, any infrastructure failure that interrupts or impairs delivery of electricity to our customers could negatively impact customer satisfaction with our service.  Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on us. The operation of our businesses is subject to advanced persistent cyber-based security threats and integrity risk.  Attacks on our infrastructure that breach cyber/data security measures could expose us to significant liabilities, reputational damage, regulatory action, and disrupt business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Numerous functions affecting the efficient operation of our businesses are dependent on the secure and reliable storage, processing and communication of electronic data and the use of sophisticated computer hardware and software systems and much of our information technology infrastructure is connected (directly or indirectly) to the internet.  Our information technology systems and infrastructure, and those of our vendors and suppliers, are susceptible to threats which could compromise confidentiality, integrity or availability.  While we have controls in place designed to protect our infrastructure, such breaches and threats are becoming increasingly sophisticated and complex, requiring continuing evolution of our program.  Any such breach, disruption or similar event that impairs our information technology infrastructure could disrupt normal business operations and affect our ability to control our generation assets, maintain confidentiality, availability and integrity of our restricted data, access retail customer information and limit communication with third parties, which could have a material adverse effect on us. As part of the continuing development of new and modified reliability standards, the FERC has approved changes to its Critical Infrastructure Protection reliability standards and has established standards for assets identified as "critical cyber assets."  Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the FERC can impose penalties (up to $1 million per day, per violation) for failure to comply with mandatory electric reliability standards, including standards to protect the power system against potential disruptions from cyber/data and physical security breaches. Further, our retail business requires us to access, collect, store and transmit sensitive customer data in the ordinary course of business.  Concerns about data privacy and data protection have led to increased regulation and other actions that could impact our businesses and changes in data privacy and data protection laws and regulations or any failure to comply with such laws and regulations could adversely affect our business and financial results.  Our retail business may need to provide sensitive customer data to vendors and service providers who require access to this information in order to provide services, such as call center operations, to the retail business. 38 Although we take precautions to protect our infrastructure, we have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to attempts at phishing and other cybersecurity intrusions.  International conflict increases the risk of state-sponsored cyber threats and escalated use of cybercriminal and cyber-espionage activities.  In particular, the current geopolitical climate has further escalated cybersecurity risk, with various government agencies, including the U.S. Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency, issuing warnings of increased cyber threats, particularly for U.S. critical infrastructure.  While the Company has not experienced a cyber/data event causing any material operational, reputational or financial impact, we recognize the growing threat within the general marketplace and our industry, and there is no assurance that we will be able to prevent any such impacts in the future.  If a material breach of our information technology systems were to occur, the critical operational capabilities and reputation of our business may be adversely affected, customer confidence may be diminished, and our business may be subject to substantial legal or regulatory scrutiny and claims, any of which may contribute to potential legal or regulatory actions against the Company, loss of customers and otherwise have a material adverse effect on us.  Any loss or disruption of critical operational capabilities to support our generation, commercial or retail operations, loss of customers, or loss of confidential or proprietary data through a breach, unauthorized access, disruption, misuse or disclosure could adversely affect our reputation, expose us to material legal or regulatory claims and impair our ability to execute our business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on us.  In addition, we may experience increased capital and operating costs to implement increased security for our information technology infrastructure.  We cannot provide any assurance that such events and impacts will not be material in the future, and our efforts to deter, identify and mitigate future breaches may require additional significant capital and may not be successful. We may suffer material losses, costs and liabilities due to operation risks, regulatory risks, and the risk of nuclear accidents arising from the ownership and operation of the Comanche Peak nuclear generation facility. We own and operate a nuclear generation facility in Glen Rose, Texas (Comanche Peak Facility).  The ownership and operation of a nuclear generation facility involves certain risks. These risks include: • unscheduled outages or unexpected costs due to equipment, mechanical, structural, cybersecurity, insider threat, third-party compromise or other problems; • inadequacy or lapses in maintenance protocols; • the impairment of reactor operation and safety systems due to human error or force majeure; • the costs of, and liabilities relating to, storage, handling, treatment, transport, release, use and disposal of radioactive materials; • the costs of procuring nuclear fuel, including impacts from restrictions on imports from Russia or China; • the costs of storing and maintaining spent nuclear fuel at our on-site dry cask storage facility; • terrorist or cybersecurity attacks by nation-states or other threat actors and the cost to protect and recover against any such attack; • the impact of a natural disaster; • limitations on the amounts and types of insurance coverage commercially available; and • uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of modifying or decommissioning nuclear facilities at the end of their useful lives. Any prolonged unavailability of the Comanche Peak Facility could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation, cash flows, financial position and reputation.  The following are among the more significant related risks: • Operational Risk — Operations at any generation facility could degrade to the point where the facility would have to be shut down.  If such degradations were to occur at the Comanche Peak Facility, the process of identifying and correcting the causes of the operational downgrade to return the facility to operation could require significant time and expense, resulting in both lost revenue and increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments.  Furthermore, a shut-down or failure at any other nuclear generation facility could cause regulators to require a shut-down or reduced availability at the Comanche Peak Facility. • Regulatory Risk — The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke licenses and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, the regulations under it or the terms of the licenses of nuclear generation facilities.  Unless extended, as to which no assurance can be given, the NRC operating licenses for the two licensed operating units at the Comanche Peak Facility will expire in 2030 and 2033, respectively.  Changes in regulations by the NRC, as well as any extension of our operating licenses, could require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or result in increased operating or decommissioning costs. 39 • Nuclear Accident Risk — Although the safety record of the Comanche Peak Facility and other nuclear generation facilities generally has been very good, accidents and other unforeseen problems have occurred both in the U.S. and elsewhere.  The consequences of an accident can be severe and include loss of life, injury, lasting negative health impacts and property damage.  Any accident, or perceived accident, could result in significant liabilities and damage our reputation.  Any such resulting liability from a nuclear accident could exceed our resources, including insurance coverage, and could ultimately result in the suspension or termination of power generation from the Comanche Peak Facility. The operation and maintenance of power generation facilities and related mining operations are capital intensive and involve significant risks that could adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. The operation and maintenance of power generation facilities and related mining operations involve many risks, including, as applicable, start-up risks, breakdown or failure of facilities, equipment or processes, operator error, lack of sufficient capital to maintain the facilities, the dependence on a specific fuel source, the ability to timely obtain parts for equipment repairs, the inability to transport our product to our customers in an efficient manner due to the lack of transmission capacity or the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions or other natural events, or terrorist attacks, as well as the risk of performance below expected levels of output, efficiency or reliability, the occurrence of any of which could result in substantial lost revenues and/or increased expenses.  A significant number of our facilities were constructed many years ago.  Older generating equipment, even if maintained or refurbished in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant capital expenditures to operate at peak efficiency or reliability.  The risk of increased maintenance and capital expenditures arises from (a) increased starting and stopping of generation equipment due to the volatility of the competitive generation market and the prospect of continuing low wholesale electricity prices that may not justify sustained or year-round operation of all our generation facilities, (b) any unexpected failure to generate power, including failure caused by equipment breakdown or unplanned outage (whether by order of applicable governmental regulatory authorities, the impact of weather events or natural disasters or otherwise), (c) damage to facilities due to storms, natural disasters, wars, terrorist or cyber/data security acts, including nation-state attacks or organized cyber and other catastrophic events and (d) the passage of time and normal wear and tear.  Further, our ability to successfully and timely complete routine maintenance or other capital projects at our existing facilities is contingent upon many variables and subject to substantial risks.  Should any such efforts be unsuccessful, we could be subject to additional costs or losses and write downs of our investment in the project. We cannot be certain of the level of capital expenditures that will be required due to changing environmental and safety laws and regulations (including changes in the interpretation or enforcement thereof), needed facility repairs and unexpected events (such as environmental impacts, natural disasters or terrorist or cyber/data security attacks).  The unexpected requirement of large capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on us.  Moreover, if we significantly modify a unit, we may be required to install the best available control technology or to achieve the lowest achievable emission rates as such terms are defined under the new source review provisions of the CAA, which would likely result in substantial additional capital expenditures. In addition, unplanned outages at any of our generation facilities, whether because of equipment breakdown or otherwise, typically increase our operation and maintenance expenses and may reduce our revenues as a result of selling fewer MWh or non-performance penalties or require us to incur significant costs as a result of running one of our higher cost units or to procure replacement power at spot market prices in order to fulfill contractual commitments.  If we do not have adequate liquidity to meet margin and collateral requirements, we may be exposed to significant losses, may miss significant opportunities and may have increased exposure to the volatility of spot markets, which could have a material adverse effect on us.  Further, our inability to operate our generation facilities efficiently, manage capital expenditures and costs, and generate earnings and cash flows from our asset-based businesses could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.  While we maintain insurance, obtain warranties from vendors and obligate contractors to meet certain performance levels, the proceeds of such insurance, warranties or performance guarantees may not be adequate to cover our lost revenues, increased expenses or liquidated damages payments should we experience equipment breakdown or non-performance by contractors or vendors. 40 Operation of power generation facilities involves significant risks and hazards customary to the power industry that could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations, and we may not have adequate insurance to cover these risks and hazards.  Our employees, contractors, customers and the general public may be exposed to a risk of injury due to the nature of our operations. Power generation involves hazardous activities, including acquiring, transporting and unloading fuel, operating large pieces of equipment and delivering electricity to transmission and distribution systems.  In addition to natural risks such as extreme weather, earthquake, flood, lightning, hurricane and wind, other human-made hazards, such as nuclear accidents, dam failure, gas or other explosions, mine area collapses, fire, structural collapse, machinery failure and other dangerous incidents are inherent risks in our operations.  These and other hazards can cause significant personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, plant and equipment, contamination of, or damage to, the environment and suspension of operations.  Further, our employees and contractors work in, and customers and the general public may be exposed to, potentially dangerous environments at or near our operations.  As a result, employees, contractors, customers and the general public are at risk for serious injury, including loss of life. The occurrence of any one of these events may result in us being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting claims for substantial damages, including for environmental cleanup costs, personal injury and property damage and fines and/or penalties.  We maintain an amount of insurance protection that we consider adequate, but we cannot provide any assurance that our insurance will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject and, even if we do have insurance coverage for a particular circumstance, we may be subject to a large deductible and maximum cap.  A successful claim for which we are not fully insured could hurt our financial results and materially harm our financial condition.  Further, due to rising insurance costs and changes in the insurance markets, including increasing pressure on firms that provide insurance to companies that own and operate fossil fuel generation, we cannot provide any assurance that our insurance coverage will continue to be available at all or at rates or on terms similar to those presently available.  Any losses not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We have been and may in the future be materially and adversely affected by obligations to comply with federal and state regulations, laws, and other legal requirements that govern the operations, assessments, storage, closure, corrective action, disposal and monitoring relating to CCR. As a result of electricity produced for decades at coal-fueled power plants in Illinois, Texas and Ohio, we manage large amounts of CCR material in surface impoundments.  In addition to the federal requirements under the CCR rule, CCR surface impoundments will continue to be regulated by existing state laws, regulations and permits, as well as additional legal requirements that may be imposed in the future.  These federal and state laws, regulations and other legal requirements may require or result in additional expenditures, increased operating and maintenance costs and/or result in closure of certain power generating facilities, which could affect the results of operations, financial position and cash flows of the Company.  We have recognized ARO related to these CCR-related requirements.  As the closure and CCR management work progresses and final closure plans and corrective action measures are developed and approved at each site, the scope and complexity of work and the amount of CCR material could be greater than current estimates and could, therefore, materially impact earnings through increased compliance expenditures. 41 The EPA has been directed by the Biden Administration to review a number of environmental rules adopted by the EPA during the Trump Administration, including the CCR rule, the ELG rule, the ACE rule and the particulate matter (PM) and NAAQS rules.  All of these rules may significantly and adversely impact our existing coal fleet and may lead to accelerated plant closure timeframes.  In addition, the expected replacement to the ACE rule and NAAQS also have the potential to adversely impact our gas-fired units. The EPA is reviewing applications submitted by us to extend closure deadlines for many of our CCR impoundments.  The scope and cost of that closure work could increase significantly based on new or potential requirements imposed by the EPA or state agencies, including the EPA's interpretations on requirements for closure of CCR units.  There is no assurance that our current assumptions for closure activities will be accepted by the EPA.  If ponds must be closed sooner than anticipated, plant closures timeframes may be accelerated. The availability and cost of emission allowances could adversely impact our costs of operations. We are required to maintain, through either allocations or purchases, sufficient emission allowances for SO 2 , CO 2 and NO X to support our operations in the ordinary course of operating our power generation facilities.  These allowances are used to meet the obligations imposed on us by various applicable environmental laws.  If our operational needs require more than our allocated allowances, we may be forced to purchase such allowances on the open market, which could be costly.  If we are unable to maintain sufficient emission allowances to match our operational needs, we may have to curtail our operations so as not to exceed our available emission allowances or install costly new emission controls.  As we use the emission allowances that we have purchased on the open market, costs associated with such purchases will be recognized as operating expense.  If such allowances are available for purchase, but only at significantly higher prices, the purchase of such allowances could materially increase our costs of operations in the affected markets. We have been and may in the future be materially and adversely affected by the effects of extreme weather conditions and seasonality. We have been and may in the future be materially affected by weather conditions and our businesses may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis as the weather changes.  In addition, we are subject to the effects of extreme weather conditions, including sustained or extreme cold or hot temperatures, hurricanes, floods, droughts, storms, fires, earthquakes or other natural disasters, which could stress our generation facilities and grid reliability, limit our ability to procure adequate fuel supply, or result in outages, damage or destroy our assets and result in casualty losses that are not ultimately offset by insurance proceeds, and could require increased capital expenditures or maintenance costs, including supply chain costs. Moreover, an extreme weather event could cause disruption in service to customers due to downed wires and poles or damage to other operating equipment, which could result in us foregoing sales of electricity and lost revenue.  Similarly, certain extreme weather events have previously affected, and may in the future, affect, the availability of generation and transmission capacity, limiting our ability to source or deliver power where it is needed or limit our ability to source fuel for our plants, including due to damage to rail or natural gas pipeline infrastructure.  Additionally, extreme weather has resulted, and may in the future result, in (i) unexpected increases in customer load, requiring our retail operation to procure additional electricity supplies at wholesale prices in excess of customer sales prices for electricity, (ii) the failure of equipment at our generation facilities, (iii) a decrease in the availability of, or increases in the cost of, fuel sources, including natural gas, diesel and coal, or (iv) unpredictable curtailment of customer load by the applicable ISO/RTO in order to maintain grid reliability, resulting in the realization of lower wholesale prices or retail customer sales.  For example, Winter Storm Uri in February 2021 had a material impact on our results of operations. Additionally, climate change may produce changes in weather or other environmental conditions, including temperature or precipitation levels, and thus may impact consumer demand for electricity.  In addition, the potential physical effects of climate change, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods, and other climatic events, could disrupt our operations and cause us to incur significant costs to prepare for or respond to these effects. Weather conditions, which cannot be reliably predicted, could have adverse consequences by requiring us to seek additional sources of electricity when wholesale market prices are high or to sell excess electricity when market prices are low, as well as significantly limiting the supply of, or increasing the cost of our fuel supply, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 42 Events outside of our control, including an epidemic or outbreak of an infectious disease, such as COVID-19, may materially adversely affect our business. We face risks related to epidemics, outbreaks or other public health events that are outside of our control, and could significantly disrupt our operations and adversely affect our financial condition.  The global or national outbreak of an illness or other communicable disease, or any other public health crisis, such as COVID-19, may cause disruptions to our business and operational plans, as a result of a number of factors, including (a) a protracted slowdown of broad sectors of the economy, (b) changes in demand or supply for commodities, (c) significant changes in legislation or regulatory policy to address the pandemic (including prohibitions on certain marketing channels, moratoriums or conditions on disconnections or limits or restrictions on late fees), (d) reduced demand for electricity (particularly from commercial and industrial customers), (e) increased late or uncollectible customer payments, (f) negative impacts on the health of our workforce, (g) a deterioration of our ability to ensure business continuity (including increased vulnerability to cyber and other information technology risks as a result of a significant portion of our workforce continuing to work from home), and (h) the inability of the Company's contractors, suppliers, and other business partners to fulfill their contractual obligations. Changes in technology, increased electricity conservation efforts, or energy sustainability efforts may reduce the value of our generation facilities and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on us. Technological advances have improved, and are likely to continue to improve, for existing and alternative methods to produce and store power, including gas turbines, wind turbines, fuel cells, hydrogen, micro turbines, photovoltaic (solar) cells, batteries and concentrated solar thermal devices, along with improvements in traditional technologies.  Such technological advances may be superior to, or may not be compatible with, some of our existing technologies, investments and infrastructure, and may require us to make significant expenditures to remain competitive, and have resulted, and are expected to continue to reduce the costs of power production or storage, which may result in the obsolescence of certain of our operating assets.  Consequently, the value of our more traditional generation assets could be significantly reduced as a result of these competitive advances, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and successfully adapt to technological changes, to offer services and products that meet customer demands and evolving industry standards.  In addition, changes in technology have altered, and are expected to continue to alter, the channels through which retail customers buy electricity ( i.e. , self-generation or distributed-generation facilities).  To the extent self-generation or distributed generation facilities become a more cost-effective option for customers, our financial condition, operating cash flows and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Technological advances in demand-side management and increased conservation efforts have resulted, and are expected to continue to result, in a decrease in electricity demand.  A significant decrease in electricity demand as a result of such efforts would significantly reduce the value of our generation assets.  Certain regulatory and legislative bodies have introduced or are considering requirements and/or incentives to reduce power consumption.  Effective power conservation by our customers could result in reduced electricity demand or significantly slow the growth in such demand.  Any such reduction in demand could have a material adverse effect on us.  Furthermore, we may incur increased capital expenditures if we are required to increase investment in conservation measures.  Additionally, increased governmental and consumer focus on energy sustainability efforts, including desire for, or incentives related to, the development, implementation and usage of low-carbon technology, may result in decreased demand for the traditional generation technologies that we currently own and operate. We may potentially be affected by emerging technologies that may over time affect change in capacity markets and the energy industry overall including distributed generation and clean technology. Some of these emerging technologies are shale gas production, distributed renewable energy technologies, energy efficiency, broad consumer adoption of electric vehicles, distributed generation and energy storage devices.  Additionally, large-scale cryptocurrency mining is becoming increasingly prevalent in certain markets, including ERCOT, and many of these cryptocurrency mining facilities are "behind-the-meter."  Such emerging technologies could affect the price of energy, levels of customer-owned generation, customer expectations and current business models and make portions of our electric system power supply and transmission and/or distribution facilities obsolete prior to the end of their useful lives.  These emerging technologies may also affect the financial viability of utility counterparties and could have significant impacts on wholesale market prices, which could ultimately have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 43 The loss of the services of our key management and personnel could adversely affect our ability to successfully operate our businesses. Our future success will depend on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly qualified personnel.  We compete for such personnel with many other companies, in and outside of our industry, government entities and other organizations.  We may not be successful in retaining current personnel or in hiring or retaining qualified personnel in the future.  Further, we are facing an increasingly competitive market for hiring and retaining skilled employees in certain skill areas, which is exacerbated by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and increased acceptance of hiring remote working employees by our competitors and other companies.  Difficulties in attracting and retaining highly qualified skilled employees may restrict our ability to adequately support our business needs and/or result in increased personnel costs.  In addition, effective succession planning is important to our long-term success.  Failure to timely and effectively ensure transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving senior management and other key personnel could hinder our strategic planning and execution. We could be materially and adversely impacted by strikes or work stoppages by our unionized employees. As of December 31, 2022, we had approximately 1,295 employees covered by collective bargaining agreements.  The terms of all current collective bargaining agreements covering represented personnel engaged in lignite mining operations, lignite-, coal-, natural gas- and nuclear-fueled generation operation, as well as some battery operations, expire on various dates between March 2023 and August 2025, but remain effective thereafter unless and until terminated by either party.  In the event that our union employees strike, participate in a work stoppage or slowdown or engage in other forms of labor strife or disruption, we would be responsible for procuring replacement labor or we could experience reduced power generation or outages.  We have in place strike contingency plans that address the procurement of replacement labor.  Strikes, work stoppages or the inability to negotiate current or future collective bargaining agreements on favorable terms or at all could have a material adverse effect on us. Risks Related to Our Structure and Ownership of our Common Stock Vistra is a holding company and its ability to obtain funds from its subsidiaries is structurally subordinated to existing and future liabilities of its subsidiaries. Vistra is a holding company that does not conduct any business operations of its own.  As a result, Vistra's cash flows and ability to meet its obligations are largely dependent upon the operating cash flows of Vistra's subsidiaries and the payment of such operating cash flows to Vistra in the form of dividends, distributions, loans or otherwise.  These subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities from Vistra and have no obligation (other than any existing contractual obligations) to provide Vistra with funds to satisfy its obligations.  Any decision by a subsidiary to provide Vistra with funds to satisfy its obligations, including those under the TRA, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or otherwise, will depend on, among other things, such subsidiary's results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, cash requirements, contractual prohibitions and other restrictions, applicable law and other factors.  The deterioration of income from, or other available assets of, any such subsidiary for any reason could limit or impair its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to Vistra. Evolving expectations from stakeholders, including investors, on ESG issues, including climate change and sustainability matters, and erosion of stakeholder trust or confidence could influence actions or decisions about our company and our industry and could adversely affect our business, operations, financial results or stock price. Companies across all industries are facing evolving expectations or increasing scrutiny from stakeholders related to their approach to ESG matters. For Vistra, climate change, safety and stakeholder relations remain primary focus areas, and changing expectations of our practices and performance across these and other ESG areas may impose additional costs or create exposure to new or additional risks. Our operations, projects and growth opportunities require us to have strong relationships with key stakeholders, including local communities and other groups directly impacted by our activities, as well as governments and government agencies, investor advocacy groups, certain institutional investors, investment funds and others which are increasingly focused on ESG practices.  Certain financial institutions have announced policies to presently or in the future cease investing or to divest investments in companies that derive any or a specified portion of their income from, or have any or a specified portion of their operations in, fossil fuels. 44 While we are strategically focused on successfully adapting to the energy transition and strongly committed to our ESG practices and performance (including transparency and accountability thereof), our plans to transition to clean power generation sources and reduce our carbon footprint may not be completed in the timeframe and we may not achieve our targets as expected, which could impact stakeholder trust and confidence.  Any such erosion of stakeholder trust and confidence, evolving expectations from stakeholders on such ESG issues, and such parties' resulting actions or decisions about our company and our industry could have negative impacts on our business, operations, financial results, and stock price, including: • negative stakeholder sentiment toward us and our industry, including concerns over environmental or sustainability matters and potential changes in federal and state regulatory actions related thereto; • loss of business or loss of market share, including to competitors who do not have any, or comparable amounts, of operations involving fossil fuels; • loss of ability to secure growth opportunities; • the inability to, or increased difficulties and costs of, obtaining services, materials, or insurance from third parties; • reductions in our credit ratings or increased costs of, or limited access to, capital; • delays in project execution; • legal action; • inability or limitations on ability to receive applicable government subsidies, or competitors with smaller or no fossil operations receiving subsidies for which we are not eligible, or in larger amounts; • increased regulatory oversight; • loss of ability to obtain and maintain necessary approvals and permits from governments and regulatory agencies on a timely basis and on acceptable terms; • impediments on our ability to acquire or renew rights-of-way or land rights on a timely basis and on acceptable terms; • changing investor sentiment regarding investment in the power and utilities industry or our company; • restricted access to and cost of capital; and • loss of ability to hire and retain top talent. We may not pay any dividends on our common stock in the future, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of our share repurchase program. In November 2018, we announced that the Board had adopted a dividend program which we initiated in the first quarter of 2019.  Each dividend under the program will be subject to declaration by the Board and, thus, may be subject to numerous factors in existence at the time of any such declaration including, but not limited to, prevailing market conditions, our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, contractual prohibitions and other restrictions with respect to the payment of dividends.  There is no assurance that the Board will declare, or that we will pay, any dividends on our common stock in the future. In October 2021, our Board approved a share repurchase program under which up to $2.0 billion of our outstanding common stock may be repurchased.  In August 2022, our Board authorized an incremental $1.25 billion for repurchases to bring the total authorized under the share repurchase program to $3.25 billion.  Under this share repurchase program or any other future share repurchase programs, we may make share repurchases through a variety of methods, including open share market purchases or privately negotiated transactions.  The timing and amount of repurchases, if any, will depend on factors such as the stock price, economic and market conditions, and corporate and regulatory requirements.  Any failure to repurchase shares after we have announced our intention to do so may negatively impact our reputation, investor confidence and the price of our common stock. 45 Holders of our preferred stock may have interests and rights that are different from our common stockholders. We are permitted under our certificate of incorporation to issue up to 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock.  We can issue shares of our preferred stock in one or more series and can set the terms of the preferred stock without seeking any further approval from our common stockholders.  Any preferred stock that we issue may rank ahead of our common stock in terms of dividend priority or liquidation premiums and may have greater voting rights than our common stock, which could dilute the value of our common stock to current stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.  As of December 31, 2022, 1,000,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock and 1,000,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock were issued and outstanding.  The Preferred Stock represents a perpetual equity interest in the Company and, unlike our indebtedness, will not give rise to a claim for payment of a principal amount at a particular date; provided , the Company may redeem the Preferred Stock at the specified times (or upon certain specified events) at the applicable redemption price set forth in the certificate of designation of each of the Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock, respectively (Certificates of Designation).  The Preferred Stock is not convertible into or exchangeable for any other securities of the Company.  Upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, after payment or provision for payment of the debts and other liabilities of the Company, the holders of Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive, pro rata and in preference to the holders of any other capital stock, an amount per share equal to $1,000 plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon, if any. Unless we have received the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding Series A Preferred Stock and the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding Series B Preferred Stock, voting as a separate class, we may not adopt any amendment to our certificate of incorporation (including the applicable Certificates of Designation) that would have a material adverse effect on the powers, preferences, duties, or special rights of such series of Preferred Stock, subject to certain exceptions.  In addition, unless we have received the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding Series A Preferred Stock and the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding Series B Preferred Stock, voting as a class together with the holders of any parity securities upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, we may not: (i) create or issue any senior securities, (ii) create or issue any parity securities (including any additional Preferred Stock) if the cumulative dividends payable on the outstanding Preferred Stock (or parity securities, if applicable) are in arrears; (iii) create or issue any additional Preferred Stock or any parity securities with an aggregate liquidation preference, together with the issued and outstanding Preferred Stock and any parity securities that are then outstanding, of greater than $2.5 billion, and (iv) engage in any Transaction that results in a Covered Disposition (as such terms are defined in the Certificates of Designation). In addition, holders of the Preferred Stock are entitled to receive, when, as, and if declared by our Board, semi-annual cash dividends on the Preferred Stock, which are cumulative from the applicable initial issuance date of the Preferred Stock and payable in arrears, and unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are being paid or declared on the Preferred Stock, we may not (i) declare or pay any dividends on any junior securities, including our common stock, or (ii) redeem or repurchase any parity securities or junior securities, subject to limited exceptions set forth in the Certificates of Designation.  There is no assurance that the Board will declare, or that we will pay, any dividends on our Preferred Stock in the future.  The holders of Preferred Stock (along with any parity securities then outstanding with similar rights) are entitled to elect two additional directors in the event any dividends on Preferred Stock are in arrears for three or more semi-annual dividend periods (whether or not consecutive), and such directors may have competing and different interests to those elected by our common stockholders.  The dividend rate for the Series A Preferred Stock from and including the initial issuance date of October 15, 2021 until the first reset date of October 15, 2026 will be 8.0% per annum of the $1,000 liquidation preference per share of Series A Preferred Stock.  The dividend rate for the Series B Preferred Stock from and including the initial issuance date of December 10, 2021 until the first reset date of December 15, 2026 will be 7.0% per annum of the $1,000 liquidation preference per share of Series B Preferred Stock.  On and after the first reset date of the Series A Preferred Stock, the dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Stock for each subsequent five-year period (each, a Reset Period) will be adjusted based upon the applicable Treasury rate, plus a spread of 6.93% per annum; provided that the applicable Treasury rate for each Reset Period will not be lower than 1.07%.  On and after the first reset date of the Series B Preferred Stock, the dividend rate on the Series B Preferred Stock for each Reset Period will be adjusted based upon the applicable Treasury rate, plus a spread of 5.74% per annum; provided that the applicable Treasury rate for each Reset Period will not be lower than 1.26%.  In the event that the Company does not exercise its option to redeem all the shares of Preferred Stock within 120 days after the first date on which a Change of Control Trigger Event (as defined in the Certificate of Designation) occurs, the then-applicable dividend rate for the Preferred Stock will be increased by 5.00%.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The discussion below, as well as other portions of this annual report on Form 10-K, contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act, Section 21E of the Exchange Act and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  In addition, management may make forward-looking statements orally or in other writing, including, but not limited to, in press releases, quarterly earnings calls, executive presentations, in the annual report to stockholders and in other filings with the SEC.  Readers can usually identify these forward-looking statements by the use of such words as “may,” “will,” “should,” “likely,” “plans,” “projects,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “believes” or similar words.  These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  Actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements.  For more discussion about risk factors that could cause or contribute to such differences, see Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors" and other risks discussed herein.  Forward-looking statements reflect the information only as of the date on which they are made.  The Company does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future events, developments, or other information.  If Vistra does update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that additional updates will be made regarding that statement or any other forward-looking statements.  This discussion is intended to clarify and focus on our results of operations, certain changes in our financial position, liquidity, capital structure and business developments for the periods covered by the consolidated financial statements included under Part II, Item 8 of this annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022.  This discussion should be read in conjunction with those consolidated financial statements and the related notes and is qualified by reference to them. 51 The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements.  The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 and for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 are included in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results in our and are incorporated herein by reference. All dollar amounts in the tables in the following discussion and analysis are stated in millions of U.S. dollars unless otherwise indicated. Business Vistra is a holding company operating an integrated retail and electric power generation business primarily in markets throughout the U.S.  Through our subsidiaries, we are engaged in competitive energy market activities including electricity generation, wholesale energy sales and purchases, commodity risk management and retail sales of electricity and natural gas to end users. Operating Segments Vistra has six reportable segments: (i) Retail, (ii) Texas, (iii) East, (iv) West, (v) Sunset and (vi) Asset Closure.  See Note 19 to the Financial Statements for further information concerning our reportable business segments. CEO Transition In March 2022, Vistra announced that the Board had named Jim Burke as its next Chief Executive Officer (CEO), effective August 1, 2022.  Mr. Burke, who previously served as President and Chief Financial Officer, also joined the Company's Board upon assuming his new role.  Vistra's previous CEO and director, Curt Morgan, will serve as a special advisor to Mr. Burke and the Board until April 30, 2023.  The transition from Mr. Morgan to Mr. Burke was a product of the Company's formal succession planning process.  In July 2022, the Company announced the appointment of Kris Moldovan as the Company's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective August 1, 2022. Significant Activities and Events and Items Influencing Future Performance Climate Change, Investments in Clean Energy and CO 2 Reductions Environmental Regulations — We are subject to extensive environmental regulation by governmental authorities, including the EPA and the environmental regulatory bodies of states in which we operate.  Environmental regulations could have a material impact on our business, such as certain corrective action measures that may be required under the CCR rule and the Effluent Limitation Guidelines (ELG) rule.  See Item 1. Business – Environmental Regulations and Related Considerations , and Item 1A. Risk Factors – Regulatory and Legislative Risks and Note 12 to the Financial Statements.  However, such rules and the regulatory environment are continuing to evolve and change, and we cannot predict the ultimate effect that such changes may have on our business. Emissions Reductions — Vistra is targeting to achieve a 60% reduction in Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO 2 equivalent emissions by 2030 as compared to a 2010 baseline with a long-term goal to achieve net-zero carbon emissions by 2050, assuming necessary advancements in technology and supportive market constructs and public policy.  In furtherance of Vistra's efforts to meet its net-zero target, Vistra expects to deploy multiple levers to transition the Company to operating with net-zero emissions. Green Finance Framework — In December 2021, we announced the publication of our Green Finance Framework, which allows us to issue green financial instruments to fund new or existing projects that support renewable energy and energy efficiency with alignment to our ESG strategy.  See Preferred Stock Offerings below for discussion of the Series B Preferred Securities issued under our Green Finance Framework. 52 Solar Generation and Energy Storage Projects — • In September 2020, we announced the planned development, at a cost of approximately $850 million, of up to 668 MW of solar photovoltaic power generation facilities and 260 MW of battery ESS in Texas.  Of this planned development in Texas, 158 MW of solar generation and the 260 MW of battery ESS came online in 2022. • In September 2021, we announced the planned development, at a cost of approximately $550 million, of up to 300 MW of solar photovoltaic power generation facilities and up to 150 MW of battery ESS at retired or to-be-retired plant sites in Illinois, based on the passage of Illinois Senate Bill 2408, the Energy Transition Act. • In January 2022, we announced that, subject to approval by the CPUC, we would enter into a 15-year resource adequacy and energy settlement contract with PG&E to develop an additional 350 MW battery ESS at our Moss Landing Power Plant site.  The CPUC approved the resource adequacy and energy settlement contract in April 2022. We will only invest in these growth projects if we are confident in the expected returns.  See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for a summary of our solar and battery ESS projects. CO 2 Reductions — In September 2020 and December 2020, we announced our intention to retire (a) all of our remaining coal generation facilities in Illinois and Ohio, (b) one coal generation facility in Texas and (c) one natural gas facility in Illinois no later than year-end 2027 due to economic challenges, including incremental expenditures that would be required to comply with the CCR rule and ELG rule (see Note 12 to the Financial Statements), and in furtherance of our efforts to significantly reduce our carbon footprint.  In June 2022, September 2022 and January 2023, we retired the Zimmer coal-fueled generation facility, the Joppa generation facilities and the Edwards coal-fueled generation facility, respectively.  See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for a summary of these planned generation retirements. Comanche Peak Nuclear Plant License Renewal In October 2022, we announced the submission of our application to the NRC for license renewal at our two-unit Comanche Peak Nuclear Plant.  The current licenses for Units 1 and 2 extend into 2030 and 2033, respectively, and we are applying to renew the licenses into 2050 and 2053, respectively. Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 In August 2022, the U.S. enacted the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (IRA), which, among other things, implements substantial new and modified energy tax credits, including a nuclear production tax credit (PTC), a solar PTC, a first-time stand-alone battery storage investment tax credit, a 15% corporate alternative minimum tax (CAMT) on book income of certain large corporations, and a 1% excise tax on net stock repurchases.  Treasury regulations are expected to define the scope of the legislation in many important respects over the next twelve months.  Vistra is not subject to the CAMT in the next fiscal year since it applies only to corporations that have a three-year average annual adjusted financial statement income in excess of $1 billion.  The excise tax is not expected to have a material impact on our financial statements.  As of December 31, 2022, we have taken the CAMT and relevant extensions or expansions of existing tax credits applicable to projects in our immediate development pipeline into account when forecasting cash taxes for periods after the law takes effect and for estimating the TRA liability. Macroeconomic Conditions Global market demand, geopolitical events and high natural gas price volatility have resulted in increased market prices for energy and other commodities, and we expect these conditions to persist, in particular in the near term.  Due in large part to the Russia and Ukraine conflict as well as other factors, we have experienced substantial shifts in commodity prices, which in turn have (i) facilitated our comprehensive hedging strategy which we believe has positioned us to lock in significant revenues and Adjusted EBITDA opportunities in 2023 through 2025, (ii) led to significant mark-to-market impacts on forward commodity derivative instruments, and (iii) combined with our comprehensive hedging strategy, resulted in significant increases in our collateral posting obligations and required substantial liquidity to support such obligations.  Additionally, we continue to monitor domestic drivers of gas prices, including the pace of investment and buildout of liquefied natural gas (LNG) export capabilities, which have the potential to more closely align U.S. natural gas pricing with the further elevated international gas markets over the next couple of years.  See also Financial Condition for further discussion of our collateral posting obligations and liquidity management activities. 53 We continue to monitor the impacts of energy volatility on the retail and associated default service markets.  As electricity pricing trended higher in 2022, we experienced increased customer migration to the default service provider in territories outside of Texas, where default service rates do not yet fully reflect the higher commodity pricing environment.  Generators (including Vistra) with contracts to serve a percentage of the resultingly higher than planned default service load (previously awarded through the default service auction process) are likely to incur losses on these particular default service contracts, as estimates of the potential migration were lower than the level of migration that was realized and the underlying cost to provide the incremental power rose above the contracted revenue rate.  As a result of this customer migration, we incurred losses in 2022 and anticipate these losses will continue to have a negative impact on our East segment through the end of these default service contracts in mid-2023. With forward power and natural gas curves increasing materially in 2022, we have increased our hedging for future periods.  As of December 31, 2022, we have hedged approximately 73% of our expected generation volumes on average for the three-year period 2023 to 2025 (with approximately 90% hedged for 2023 and approximately 76% hedged for 2024). Changes to the geopolitical situation and the inflationary environment, among other factors, have also created supply chain constraints that have reduced the availability and increased the costs of certain fuels, such as coal, reduced the availability of certain equipment and supply relevant to construction of renewables projects, and increased the lead time to procure certain materials necessary to maintain our natural gas, nuclear and coal fleet.  We are proactively managing the increased costs of materials and supply chain disruptions and continuing to prudently re-evaluate the business cases and timing of our planned development projects, which has resulted in a deferral of some of our planned capital spend for our renewables projects from 2022 to 2023 and beyond.  In addition, we have proactively engaged our suppliers to secure key materials needed to maintain our existing generation facilities prior to future planned outages, and our Vistra Zero operational and development projects are anticipated to benefit from the impact of the recently passed IRA.  The inflationary environment has also led to, and is expected to cause further increases in, interest rates, resulting in increased refinancing or borrowing costs, including project financing for our development projects. Additionally, we have been monitoring, and will continue to closely monitor, developments of the Russia and Ukraine conflict, including sanctions (or potential sanctions) against Russian energy exports and Russian nuclear fuel supply and enrichment activities, as well as actions by Russia to limit energy deliveries, which may further impact commodity prices in Europe and globally.  Our 2022 refueling has not been affected by the Russia and Ukraine conflict.  We work with a diverse set of global nuclear fuel cycle suppliers to procure our nuclear fuel, and therefore, we expect to have enough nuclear fuel to support all our refueling needs through 2025.  We are taking affirmative action by including mitigating strategies in our procurement portfolio to ensure we can secure the nuclear fuel needed to continue to operate our nuclear facility.  If imports from Russia were restricted, U.S. merchant nuclear power generators could be challenged in their refueling operations in future years. Winter Storm Uri In February 2021, a severe winter storm with extremely cold temperatures affected much of the U.S., including Texas.  This severe weather resulted in surging demand for power, gas supply shortages, operational challenges for generators, and a significant load shed event that was ordered by ERCOT beginning on February 15, 2021 and continuing through February 18, 2021.  Winter Storm Uri had a material adverse impact on our results of operations and operating cash flows. The weather event resulted in a $2.2 billion negative impact on the Company's pre-tax earnings in the year ended December 31, 2021 after taking into account approximately $544 million in securitization proceeds Vistra received from ERCOT as further described below.  The primary drivers of the loss were the need to procure power in ERCOT at market prices at or near the price cap due to lower output from our natural gas-fueled power plants driven by natural gas deliverability issues and our coal-fueled power plants driven by coal fuel handling challenges, high fuel costs, and high retail load costs. 54 As part of the 2021 regular Texas legislative sessions and in response to extraordinary costs incurred by electricity market participants during Winter Storm Uri, the Texas legislature passed House Bill (HB) 4492 for ERCOT to obtain financing to distribute to load-serving entities (LSEs) that were charged and paid to ERCOT exceptionally high price adders and ancillary service costs during Winter Storm Uri.  In October 2021, the PUCT issued a debt obligation order approving ERCOT's $2.1 billion financing and the methodology for allocation of proceeds to the LSEs.  In December 2021, ERCOT finalized the amount of allocations to the LSEs, and we received $544 million in proceeds from ERCOT in the second quarter of 2022.  We concluded that the threshold for recognizing a receivable was met in December 2021 as the amounts to be received were determinable and ERCOT was directed by its governing body, the PUCT, to take all actions required to effectuate the $2.1 billion funding approved in the debt obligation order.  Accordingly, we recognized the $544 million in expected proceeds as an expense reduction in the fourth quarter of 2021 within fuel, purchased power costs and delivery fees in our consolidated statements of operation.  The final financial impact of Winter Storm Uri continues to be subject to the outcome of litigation arising from the event. Vistra has taken various actions to improve its risk profile for future weather-driven volatility events, including investing in improvements to further harden its coal fuel handling capabilities and to further weatherize its ERCOT fleet for even colder temperatures and longer durations; carrying more backup generation into the peak seasons after accounting for weatherization investments and ERCOT market improvements implemented going forward; contracting for incremental gas storage to support its gas fleet; adding additional dual fuel capabilities at its gas steam units and increasing fuel oil inventory at its existing dual fuel sites; participating in processes with the PUCT and ERCOT for registration of gas infrastructure as critical resources with the transmission and distribution utilities and for enhanced winterization of both gas and power assets in the state; and engaging in processes to evaluate potential market reforms. Dividend Program In November 2018, we announced that the Board had adopted a dividend program which we initiated in the first quarter of 2019.  During the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, we paid dividends to common stockholders totaling $302 million, $290 million and $266 million, respectively.  See Note 13 to the Financial Statements for more information about our dividend program. Share Repurchase Program In October 2021, we announced that the Board had authorized a share repurchase program (Share Repurchase Program) under which up to $2.0 billion of our outstanding common stock may be repurchased.  The Share Repurchase Program became effective on October 11, 2021.  In August 2022, the Board authorized an incremental $1.25 billion for repurchases to bring the total authorized under the Share Repurchase Program to $3.25 billion.  We expect to complete repurchases under the current $3.25 billion Share Repurchase Program by the end of 2023. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements for more information concerning the Share Repurchase Program. Preferred Stock Offerings In October 2021, we issued 1,000,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock in a private offering (Offering).  The net proceeds of the Offering were approximately $990 million, after deducting underwriting commissions and offering expenses.  We intend to use the net proceeds from the Offering to repurchase shares of our outstanding common stock under the Share Repurchase Program (discussed above). 55 In December 2021, we issued 1,000,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock in a private offering (Series B Offering) under our Green Finance Framework.  The net proceeds of the Series B Offering were approximately $985 million, after deducting underwriting commissions and offering expenses.  We have used and will continue to use an amount equal to the net proceeds from the Series B Offering to pay for or reimburse existing and new eligible renewable and battery ESS developments in accordance with the Green Finance Framework. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements for more information concerning the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock. Debt Activity We have stated our objective to reduce our consolidated net leverage.  We also intend to continue to simplify and optimize our capital structure, maintain adequate liquidity and pursue opportunities to refinance our long-term debt to extend maturities and/or reduce ongoing interest expense.  While the financial impacts resulting from Winter Storm Uri and higher margining requirements as a result of increasing power and natural gas prices have caused an increase in our consolidated net leverage, the Company remains committed to a strong balance sheet.  See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for details of our debt activity and Note 9 to the Financial Statements for details of our accounts receivable financing. Vistra Operations Credit Agreement Amendments — In April 2022 and July 2022, the Vistra Operations Credit Agreement was amended to, among other things, (i) establish new classes of extended revolving credit commitments maturing in April 2027 in aggregate amounts of $2.8 billion and $725 million as of April 2022 and July 2022, respectively, (ii) appoint certain additional revolving letter of credit issuers, and (iii) require Vistra Operations to terminate at least $350 million in revolving commitments maturing April 29, 2027 by December 30, 2022 or earlier if Vistra Operations or any guarantor receives proceeds from any capital markets transaction whose primary purpose is designed to enhance the liquidity of Vistra Operations and its guarantors.  In accordance with this requirement, effective December 30, 2022, Vistra Operations terminated $350 million in revolving commitments.  After giving effect to the reduction, Vistra Operations has $3.175 billion of revolving credit commitments maturing in April 2027. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for details of the Vistra Operations Credit Agreement amendments. Commodity-Linked Revolving Credit Facility — In February 2022, Vistra Operations entered into a credit agreement by and among Vistra Operations, Vistra Intermediate, the lenders, joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners party thereto, and Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent and collateral agent.  The Credit Agreement provides for a senior secured commodity-linked revolving credit facility (the Commodity-Linked Facility).  Vistra Operations intends to use the liquidity provided under the Commodity-Linked Facility to make cash postings as required under various commodity contracts to which Vistra Operations and its subsidiaries are parties as power prices increase from time-to time and for other working capital and general corporate purposes.  In May 2022, June 2022 and October 2022, the Credit Agreement was amended to, among other things, (i) effect certain additions and reductions (as applicable) to the revolving commitments of certain lenders, and extend the maturity date thereof, (ii) modify certain pricing provisions, financial covenants and provisions related to the collateral, and (iii) adjust certain borrowing and repayment provisions, including the calculation of the borrowing base.  See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for more information concerning the Commodity-Linked Facility. Capacity Markets PJM — Reliability Pricing Model (RPM) auction results, for the zones in which our assets are located, are as follows for each planning year: 56 Our capacity sales in PJM, net of purchases, aggregated by planning year and capacity type through planning year 2024-2025, are as follows: NYISO — The most recent seasonal auction results for NYISO's Rest-of-State zones, in which the capacity for our Independence plant clears, are as follows for each planning period: Due to the short-term, seasonal nature of the NYISO capacity auctions, we monetize the majority of our capacity through bilateral trades.  Our capacity sales, aggregated by season through winter 2024-2025, are as follows: ISO-NE — The most recent Forward Capacity Auction results for ISO-NE Rest-of-Pool, in which most of our assets are located, are as follows for each planning year: Performance incentive rules increase capacity payments for those resources that are providing excess energy or reserves during a shortage event, while penalizing those that produce less than the required level.  We continue to market and pursue longer term multi-year capacity transactions that extend through planning year 2025-2026. MISO — The capacity auction results for MISO Local Resource Zone 4, in which our assets are located, are as follows for each planning year: 57 MISO capacity sales through planning year 2025-2026 are as follows: CAISO — Our capacity sales in CAISO, aggregated by calendar year for 2023 through 2024 for Moss Landing, are as follows: 58 Key Operational Risks and Challenges Following is a discussion of certain key operational risks and challenges facing management and the initiatives currently underway to manage such challenges.  These matters involve risks that could have a material effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity, financial condition, cash flows, reputation, prospects and the market price for our securities (including our common stock).  See also Item 1A. Risk Factors in this annual report on Form 10-K for additional discussion on risks that could have a material effect on our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition, cash flows, reputation, prospects and the market price for our securities (including our common stock). Natural Gas Price and Market Heat Rate Exposure The price of power is typically set by natural gas-fueled generation facilities, with wholesale prices generally tracking increases or decreases in the price of natural gas, with exceptions such as those periods during which ERCOT power prices rise significantly as a result of the scarcity of available generation resources relative to power demand.  Natural gas prices have historically been volatile. In contrast to our natural gas-fueled generation facilities, changes in natural gas prices have no significant effect on the cost of generating power at our nuclear-, lignite- and coal-fueled facilities.  Consequently, all other factors being equal, these nuclear-, lignite- and coal-fueled generation assets increase or decrease in value as wholesale electricity prices change either as a result of changes in natural gas prices or market heat rates, because of the effect on our operating margins.  A persistent decline in the price of natural gas, if not offset by an increase in market heat rates, would likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition, predominantly related to the production of power generation volumes in excess of the volumes utilized to service our retail customer load requirements and wholesale hedges. The wholesale market price of electricity divided by the market price of natural gas represents the market heat rate.  Market heat rate can be affected by a number of factors, including generation availability, mix of assets and the efficiency of the marginal supplier (generally natural gas-fueled generation facilities) in generating electricity.  Our market heat rate exposure is impacted by changes in the availability of generation resources, such as additions and retirements of generation facilities, and mix of generation assets.  For example, increasing renewable (wind and solar) generation capacity generally depresses market heat rates, particularly during periods when total demand is relatively low.  However, increasing penetration of renewable generation capacity may also contribute to greater volatility of wholesale market prices independent of changes in the price of natural gas, given their intermittent nature.  Decreases in market heat rates decrease the value of our generation assets because lower market heat rates result in lower wholesale electricity prices, and vice versa. As a result of our exposure to the variability of natural gas prices and market heat rates, retail sales and hedging activities are critical to our operating results and maintaining consistent cash flow levels. Our integrated power generation and retail electricity business provides us opportunities to hedge our generation position utilizing retail electricity markets as a sales channel.  In addition, our approach to managing electricity price risk focuses on the following: • employing disciplined, liquidity-efficient hedging and risk management strategies through physical and financial energy-related contracts intended to partially hedge gross margins; • continuing focus on cost management to better withstand gross margin volatility; • following a retail pricing strategy that appropriately reflects the value of our product offering to customers, the magnitude and costs of commodity price, liquidity risk and retail demand variability; and • improving retail customer service to attract and retain high-value customers. We have engaged in natural gas hedging activities to mitigate the risk of higher or lower wholesale electricity prices that have corresponded to increases or declines in natural gas prices.  When natural gas prices are elevated or depressed, we continue to seek opportunities to manage our wholesale power price exposure through hedging activities, including forward wholesale and retail electricity sales. 59 Estimated hedging levels for generation volumes in our Texas, East, West and Sunset segments as of December 31, 2022 were as follows: The following sensitivity table provides approximate estimates of the potential impact of movements in power prices and spark spreads (the difference between the power revenue and fuel expense of natural gas-fired generation as calculated using an assumed heat rate of 7.2 MMBtu/MWh) on realized pre-tax earnings (in millions) taking into account the hedge positions noted above for the periods presented.  The residual gas position is calculated based on two steps: first, calculating the difference between actual heat rates of our natural gas generation units and the assumed 7.2 heat rate used to calculate the sensitivity to spark spreads; and second, calculating the residual natural gas exposure that is not already included in the gas generation spark spread sensitivity shown in the table below.  The estimates related to price sensitivity are based on our expected generation, related hedges and forward prices as of December 31, 2022. 60 Competitive Retail Markets and Customer Retention Competitive retail activity in ERCOT has resulted in retail customer churn as customers switch retail electricity providers for various reasons.  Based on numbers of meters, our total retail customer counts increased approximately 3%, 3% and 1% in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.  Based upon December 31, 2022 results discussed below in Results of Operations , a 1% decline in retail customers in ERCOT would result in a decline in annual revenues of approximately $68 million.  In responding to the competitive landscape in the ERCOT market, we have attempted to reduce overall customer losses by focusing on the following key initiatives: • Maintaining competitive pricing initiatives on residential service plans; • Actively competing for new customers in areas open to competition within ERCOT, while continuing to strive to enhance the experience of our existing customers; we are focused on continuing to implement initiatives that deliver world-class customer service and improve the overall customer experience; • Establishing and leveraging our TXU Energy TM brand in the sale of electricity to residential and commercial customers, as the most innovative retailer in the ERCOT market by continuing to develop tailored product offerings to meet customer needs; and • Focusing market initiatives largely on programs targeted at retaining the existing highest-value customers and to recapturing customers who have switched REPs, including maintaining and continuously refining a disciplined contracting and pricing approach and economic segmentation of the business market to enhance targeted sales and marketing efforts and to more effectively deploy our direct-sales force; tactical programs we have initiated include improved customer service, aided by an enhanced customer management system, new product price/service offerings and a multichannel approach for the small business market. Exposures Related to Nuclear Asset Outages Our nuclear assets are comprised of two generation units at the Comanche Peak facility, each with an installed nameplate generation capacity of 1,200 MW.  As of December 31, 2022, these units represented approximately 6% of our total generation capacity.  The nuclear generation units represent our lowest marginal cost source of electricity.  Assuming both nuclear generation units experienced an outage at the same time, the unfavorable impact to pretax earnings is estimated (based upon forward electricity market prices for 2023 at December 31, 2022) to be approximately $2 million per day before consideration of any costs to repair the cause of such outages or receipt of any insurance proceeds.  Also see discussion of nuclear facilities insurance in Note 12 to the Financial Statements to understand the importance and limits of our insurance protection. The inherent complexities and related regulations associated with operating nuclear generation facilities result in environmental, regulatory and financial risks.  The operation of nuclear generation facilities is subject to continuing review and regulation by the NRC, covering, among other things, operations, maintenance, emergency planning, security, and environmental and safety protection.  The NRC may implement changes in regulations that result in increased capital or operating costs and may require extended outages, modify, suspend or revoke operating licenses and impose fines for failure to comply with its existing regulations and the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act.  In addition, an unplanned outage at another nuclear generation facility could result in the NRC taking action to shut down our Comanche Peak units as a precautionary measure. We participate in industry groups and with regulators to keep current on the latest developments in nuclear safety, operation and maintenance and on emerging threats and mitigating techniques.  These groups include, but are not limited to, the NRC, the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations (INPO) and the Nuclear Energy Institute (NEI).  We also apply the knowledge gained through our continuing investment in technology, processes and services to improve our operations and to detect, mitigate and protect our nuclear generation assets.  Management continues to focus on the safe, reliable and efficient operations at the facility. 61 Cyber/Data Security and Infrastructure Protection Risk A breach of cyber/data security measures that impairs our information technology infrastructure, operations technology systems, supporting components, and/or associated sites utilized by the Company or one of our service providers could disrupt normal business operations and affect our ability to control our generation assets, access retail customer information and limit communication with third parties.  Breaches and threats are becoming increasingly sophisticated, complex, change frequently and may be difficult to detect.  Any loss of confidential or proprietary data through a breach could materially affect our reputation, including our TXU Energy, Ambit Energy, Value Based Brands, Dynegy Energy Services, Homefield Energy, TriEagle Energy, Public Power and U.S. Gas & Electric brands, expose the company to legal claims, significant liabilities, reputational damage, regulatory action, and disrupt business operations, which could impair our ability to execute on business strategies. We participate in industry groups and with regulators to remain current on emerging threats and mitigating techniques.  These groups include, but are not limited to, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Electricity Information Sharing and Analysis Center, U.S. Cyber Emergency Response Team, the NRC and NERC. While the Company has not experienced a cyber/data event causing any material operational, reputational or financial impact, we recognize the growing threat within the general marketplace and our industry, and are proactively making strategic investments in our perimeter and internal defenses, cyber/data security operations center and regulatory compliance activities.  We have controls in place designed to protect our infrastructure, provide our employees awareness training of cybersecurity threats, routinely utilize information technology security experts to assist us in our evaluations of the effectiveness of our information technology systems and controls, and we regularly enhance our security measures to protect our systems and data, including encryption, tokenization and authentication technologies to mitigate cybersecurity risks and increasing our monitoring capabilities to enhance early detection and rapid response to potential cyber threats.  In response to the fact that a portion of our workforce operates within a hybrid work environment, we have reduced our attack surface process and technology, which removes remote network risk from our internal systems, assets, or data. We also apply the knowledge gained through industry and government organizations, external partner cyber risk and maturity assessments to continuously improve our technology, processes and services to detect, mitigate and protect our cyber and data assets. Seasonality The demand for and market prices of electricity and natural gas are affected by weather.  As a result, our operating results are impacted by extreme or sustained weather conditions and may fluctuate on a seasonal basis.  Typically, demand for and the price of electricity is higher in the summer and winter seasons, when the temperatures are more extreme, and the demand for and price of natural gas is also generally higher in the winter.  More severe weather conditions such as heat waves or extreme winter weather have made, and may make such fluctuations more pronounced.  The pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on, among other things, the retail load served and the terms of contracts to purchase or sell electricity. Critical Accounting Estimates We follow accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S.  Application of these accounting policies in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the reporting of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet dates and revenues and expenses during the periods covered.  The following is a summary of certain critical accounting estimates that are impacted by judgments and uncertainties and under which different amounts might be reported using different assumptions or estimation methodologies. Derivative Instruments and Mark-to-Market Accounting We enter into contracts for the purchase and sale of energy-related commodities, and also enter into other derivative instruments such as options, swaps, futures and forwards primarily to manage commodity price and interest rate risks.  Under accounting standards related to derivative instruments and hedging activities, these instruments are subject to mark-to-market accounting, and the determination of market values for these instruments is based on numerous assumptions and estimation techniques. 62 Mark-to-market accounting recognizes changes in the fair value of derivative instruments in the financial statements as market prices change.  Such changes in fair value are accounted for as unrealized mark-to-market gains and losses in net income with an offset to derivative assets and liabilities.  The availability of quoted market prices in energy markets is dependent on the type of commodity (e.g., natural gas, electricity, etc.), time period specified and delivery point.  Where quoted market prices are not available, the fair value is based on unobservable inputs, which require significant judgment.  Derivative instruments valued based on unobservable inputs primarily include (i) forward sales and purchases of electricity, natural gas and coal, (ii) electricity, natural gas and coal options, and (iii) financial transmission rights.  In computing fair value for derivatives, each forward pricing curve is separated into liquid and illiquid periods.  The liquid period varies by delivery point and commodity.  Generally, the liquid period is supported by exchange markets, broker quotes and frequent trading activity.  For illiquid periods, fair value is estimated based on forward price curves developed using proprietary modeling techniques that take into account available market information and other inputs that might not be readily observable in the market.  Any significant changes to these inputs could result in a material change to the value of the assets or liabilities recorded on our consolidated balance sheets and could result in a material change to the unrealized gains or losses recorded in our consolidated statements of operations.  We estimate fair value as described in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. Accounting standards related to derivative instruments and hedging activities allow for normal purchase or sale elections, which generally eliminate the requirement for mark-to-market recognition in net income.  Normal purchases and sales (NPNS) are contracts that provide for physical delivery of quantities expected to be used or sold over a reasonable period in the normal course of business and are not subject to mark-to-market accounting if the NPNS election is made and are accounted for on an accrual basis.  Determining whether a contract qualifies for the normal purchase or sale election requires judgment as to whether or not the contract will physically deliver and requires that management ensure compliance with all associated qualification and documentation requirements.  If it is determined that a transaction designated as a normal purchase or sale no longer meets the scope exception due to changes in estimates, the related contract would be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with immediate recognition through earnings. See Note 15 to the Financial Statements for further discussion regarding derivative instruments. Accounting for Income Taxes Our income tax expense and related consolidated balance sheet amounts involve significant management estimates and judgments.  Amounts of deferred income tax assets and liabilities, as well as current and noncurrent accruals, involve estimates and judgments of the timing and probability of recognition of income and deductions by taxing authorities.  Further, we assess the likelihood that we will be able to realize or utilize our deferred tax assets.  If realization is not more likely than not, we would record a valuation allowance against such deferred tax assets for the amount we would not expect to utilize, which would reduce the carrying value of the deferred tax amounts.  When evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including the following: • the creation and timing of future income associated with the reversal of deferred tax liabilities in excess of deferred tax assets; • the existence, or lack thereof, of statutory limitations on the period that net operating losses may be carried forward; and • the amounts and history of income or losses, adjusted for certain non-recurring items. Actual income taxes could vary from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of various items, including changes in income tax laws, our forecasted financial condition and results of operations in future periods, as well as final review of filed tax returns by taxing authorities. Income tax returns are regularly subject to examination by applicable tax authorities.  In management's opinion, the liability recorded pursuant to income tax accounting guidance related to uncertain tax positions reflects future taxes that may be owed as a result of any examination. See Notes 1 and 6 to the Financial Statements for further discussion of income tax matters. 63 Accounting for Tax Receivable Agreement (TRA) On the Effective Date, Vistra entered into the TRA with a transfer agent.  Pursuant to the TRA, we issued the TRA Rights for the benefit of the first-lien creditors of TCEH entitled to receive such TRA Rights under the Plan of Reorganization.  Vistra reflected the obligation associated with TRA Rights at fair value in the amount of $574 million as of the Effective Date related to these future payment obligations.  As of December 31, 2022, the TRA obligation has been adjusted to $522 million.  During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded an increase to the carrying value of the TRA obligation totaling $64 million as a result of adjustments to forecasted book and taxable income due to increases in commodity price forecasts.  As of December 31, 2022, expected undiscounted federal and state payments under the TRA is estimated to be approximately $1.4 billion.  The TRA obligation value is the discounted amount of projected payments to be made each year under the TRA, based on certain assumptions, including but not limited to: • the amount of tax basis related to (i) the Lamar and Forney acquisition and (ii) step-up resulting from the PrefCo Preferred Stock Sale (which is estimated to be approximately $5.5 billion) and the allocation of such tax basis step-up among the assets subject thereto; • the depreciable lives of the assets subject to such tax basis step-up, which generally is expected to be 15 years for most of such assets; • a blended federal/state corporate income tax rate in all future years of 22.9%; • future taxable income by year for future years; • the Company generally expects to generate sufficient taxable income to be able to utilize the deductions arising out of (i) the tax basis step up attributable to the PrefCo Preferred Stock Sale, (ii) the entire tax basis of the assets acquired as a result of the Lamar and Forney Acquisition, and (iii) tax benefits related to imputed interest deemed to be paid by us as a result of payments under the TRA in the tax year in which such deductions arise; • a discount rate of 15%, which represented our view at the Effective Date of the rate that a market participant would use based on the risk associated with the uncertainty in the amount and timing of the cash flows, at the time of Emergence; and • additional states that Vistra now operates in, the relevant tax rates of those states and how income will be apportioned to those states. There may be significant changes, which may be material, to the estimate of the related liability due to various reasons including changes in federal and state tax laws and regulations, changes in estimates of the amount or timing of future consolidated taxable income, utilization of acquired net operating losses, reversals of temporary book/tax differences and other items. Changes in those estimates are recognized as adjustments to the related TRA Rights liability, with offsetting impacts recorded in the consolidated statements of operations as Impacts of Tax Receivable Agreement.  See Note 7 to the Financial Statements. Asset Retirement Obligations (ARO) As part of business combination accounting, new fair values were established for all AROs assumed in the Merger.  A liability is initially recorded at fair value for an ARO associated with the legal obligation associated with law, regulatory, contractual or constructive retirement requirements of tangible long-lived assets.  These liabilities primarily relate to nuclear generation plant decommissioning, land reclamation related to lignite mining, and remediation or closure of coal ash basins.  In estimating the ARO liability, we are required to make significant estimates and assumptions. For the estimates and assumptions of the nuclear generation plant decommissioning, we use unit-by-unit decommissioning cost studies to provide a marketplace assessment of the expected costs (in current year dollars) and timing of decommissioning activities, which are validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects within the industry and other estimates.  Decommissioning cost studies are updated for each of our nuclear units at least every five years unless circumstances warrant a more frequent update.  In estimating the liability for December 31, 2022, we have included an assumption that Vistra receives a license extension of 20 years from the NRC to continue to operate Comanche Peak Units 1 and 2 through 2050 and 2053, respectively.  The costs to ultimately decommission the facility are recoverable through the regulatory rate making process as part of Oncor's delivery fees and therefore changes in estimates of the ARO do not impact Vistra's earnings. 64 The estimates and assumptions required for the mining land reclamation related to lignite mining, such as costs to fill in mining pits and interpretation of the mining permit closure requirements, are complex and require a significant amount of judgment.  To develop the estimate of costs to fill in mining pits, we utilize a complex proprietary model to estimate the volume of the pit.  A significant portion of the estimate is associated with the Asset Closure segment, thus related to closed facilities with changes in the estimate recorded to our consolidated statements of operations. These obligations are adjusted on a regular basis to reflect the passage of time and to incorporate revisions to the following significant estimates and assumptions: • estimation of dates for retirement, which can be dependent on environmental and other legislation; • amounts and timing of future cash expenditures associated with retirement, settlement or remediation activities; • discount rates; • cost escalation factors; • market risk premium; • inflation rates; and • if applicable, past experience with government regulators regarding similar obligations. For the next five years, Vistra is projected to spend approximately $432 million (on a nominal basis) to achieve its mining reclamation and other coal ash remediation objectives.  During the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, we transferred $61 million, zero and $15 million, respectively, in ARO obligations to third parties for remediation.  Any remaining unpaid third-party obligation was reclassified to other current liabilities and other noncurrent liabilities and deferred credits in our consolidated balance sheets. See Note 20 to the Financial Statements for additional discussion of ARO obligations and adjustments made to the ARO obligation estimates during the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020. Impairment of Goodwill and Other Long-Lived Assets We evaluate long-lived assets (including intangible assets with finite lives) for impairment, in accordance with accounting standards related to impairment or disposal of long-lived assets, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable.  For our generation assets, possible indications include an expectation of continuing long-term declines in natural gas prices and/or market heat rates or an expectation that "more likely than not" a generation asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of significantly before the end of its estimated useful life.  The determination of the existence of these and other indications of impairment involves judgments that are subjective in nature and may require the use of estimates in forecasting future results and cash flows related to an asset or group of assets.  Further, the unique nature of our property, plant and equipment, which includes a fleet of generation assets with a diverse fuel mix and individual generation units that have varying production or output rates, requires the use of significant judgments in determining the existence of impairment indications and the grouping of assets for impairment testing.  See Note 20 to the Financial Statements for discussion of impairments of long-lived assets recorded in the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020. Recoverability of long-lived assets is determined by a comparison of the carrying amount of the long-lived asset group to the net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset group, through considering specific assumptions for forward natural gas and electricity prices, forward capacity prices, the effects of enacted environmental rules, generation plant performance, forecasted capital expenditures, forecasted fuel prices and forecasted operating costs.  The carrying value of such asset groups is determined to be unrecoverable if the projected undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value. If an asset group carrying value is determined to be unrecoverable, fair value will be calculated based on a market participant view and a loss will be recorded for the amount the carrying value exceeds the fair value.  Fair value is determined primarily by discounted cash flows (income approach) and supported by available market valuations, if applicable.  The income approach involves estimates of future performance that reflect assumptions regarding, among other things, forward natural gas and electricity prices, forward capacity prices, market heat rates, the effects of enacted environmental rules, generation plant performance, forecasted capital expenditures and forecasted fuel prices.  Another key assumption in the income approach is the discount rate applied to the forecasted cash flows.  Any significant change to one or more of these factors can have a material impact on the fair value measurement of our long-lived assets.  Additional material impairments related to our generation facilities may occur in the future if forward wholesale electricity prices decline in the markets in which we operate in or if additional environmental regulations increase the cost of producing electricity at our generation facilities. 65 Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, such as the intangible asset related to the trade names of TXU Energy TM , Ambit Energy, 4Change Energy TM , Homefield, Dynegy Energy Services, TriEagle Energy, Public Power and U.S. Gas & Electric, respectively, are required to be evaluated for impairment at least annually (we have selected October 1 as our annual impairment test date) or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate an impairment may exist, such as the indicators used to evaluate impairments to long-lived assets discussed above or declines in values of comparable public companies in our industry. As of December 31, 2022, our goodwill balances totaled $2.461 billion and $122 million for our Retail reporting unit and Texas Generation reporting unit, respectively.  Under this goodwill impairment analysis, if at the assessment date, a reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its estimated fair value, the excess carrying value is written off as an impairment charge.  Accounting standards allow a company to qualitatively assess if the carrying value of a reporting unit with goodwill is more likely than not less than the fair value of that reporting unit.  If the entity determines the carrying value, including goodwill, is not more likely greater than the fair value, no further testing of goodwill for impairment is required.  On the most recent goodwill testing date, we performed a qualitative assessment and determined that it was more likely than not that the fair value of our Retail and Texas Generation reporting units exceeded their carrying value at October 1, 2022.  Significant qualitative factors evaluated included reporting unit financial performance and market multiples, general macroeconomic, industry, and market conditions, cost factors, customer attrition, interest rates and changes in reporting unit book value. As of  December 31, 2022, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives related to our retail trade names totaled $1.341 billion.  Under this impairment analysis, if at the assessment date, a retail trade name's carrying value exceeds its estimated fair value, the excess carrying value is written off as an impairment charge. Accounting standards allow a company to qualitatively assess if the carrying value of our retail trade name intangible assets is more likely than not less than the fair value.  On the most recent testing date, we performed a qualitative assessment and determined that it was more likely than not that the fair value of our retail trade names exceeded their carrying value at October 1, 2022.  Significant qualitative factors evaluated included trade name financial performance, general macroeconomic, industry, and market conditions, customer attrition and interest rates. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS In the year ended December 31, 2022, our operating segments delivered strong operating performance with a disciplined focus on cost management, while generating and selling essential electricity in a safe and reliable manner.  Our performance reflected the stability of our integrated model, including a diversified generation fleet, retail and commercial and hedging activities in support of our integrated business.  As part of our comprehensive hedging strategy, we hedged longer-dated revenues and fuel costs to reduce risk and lock in value as forward power and gas curves moved up materially, and we believe this has positioned us to significantly benefit operating results in 2023 and beyond.  In addition, we executed on our share repurchase strategy. 66 Vistra Consolidated Financial Results — Year Ended December 31, 2022 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2021 67 Consolidated operating loss decreased $338 million to $1.177 billion in the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021.  The change in results was primarily driven by the $2.2 billion negative impact on our pre-tax earnings associated with Winter Storm Uri in the year ended December 31, 2021.  Partially offsetting the 2021 Winter Storm Uri impact, results for the year ended December 31, 2022 were unfavorably impacted by a $1.75 billion increase in pre-tax unrealized mark-to-market losses on derivative positions.  Power and natural gas forward market curves moved up during the year ended December 31, 2022 driving the pre-tax unrealized mark-to-market losses on commodity hedging transactions.  Included within these unrealized mark-to-market changes are pre-tax net unrealized losses of $544 million and $298 million recorded in the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, due to the discontinuance of NPNS accounting on retail electric contract portfolios where physical settlement is no longer considered probable throughout the contract term.  We believe the overall increase in forward power and natural gas prices during 2022 has positioned us to significantly benefit operating results in 2023 and beyond. Interest expense and related charges decreased $16 million to $368 million in the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 driven by unrealized mark-to-market gains on interest rate swaps of $250 million in 2022 compared to $134 million in 2021 due to a more significant rise in interest rates in 2022.  The favorable variance is partially offset by an increase in interest paid/accrued of $111 million driven by higher average borrowings during the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, reflecting costs associated with increased collateral posting obligations supporting our comprehensive hedging strategy.  See Note 20 to the Financial Statements. For the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, the impacts of the TRA totaled expense of $128 million and income of $53 million, respectively.  See Note 7 to the Financial Statements for discussion of the impacts of the TRA obligation. For the year ended December 31, 2022, income tax benefit totaled $350 million and the effective tax rate was 22.4%.  For the year ended December 31, 2021, income tax benefit totaled $458 million and the effective tax rate was 26.6%.  See Note 6 to the Financial Statements for reconciliation of the effective rates to the U.S. federal statutory rate. 68 Discussion of Adjusted EBITDA Non-GAAP Measures — In analyzing and planning for our business, we supplement our use of GAAP financial measures with non-GAAP financial measures, including EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA as performance measures.  These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our business that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures included in the tables below, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  These non-GAAP financial measures should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures and are, by definition, an incomplete understanding of Vistra and must be considered in conjunction with GAAP measures.  In addition, non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized; therefore, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names.  We strongly encourage investors to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and not rely on any single financial measure. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA — We believe EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA provide meaningful representations of our operating performance.  We consider EBITDA as another way to measure financial performance on an ongoing basis.  Adjusted EBITDA is meant to reflect the operating performance of our segments for the period presented.  We define EBITDA as earnings (loss) before interest expense, income tax expense (benefit) and depreciation and amortization expense.  We define Adjusted EBITDA as EBITDA adjusted to exclude (i) gains or losses on the sale or retirement of certain assets, (ii) the impacts of mark-to-market changes on derivatives, (iii) the impact of impairment charges, (iv) certain amounts associated with fresh-start reporting, acquisitions, dispositions, transition costs or restructurings, (v) non-cash compensation expense, (vi) impacts from the Tax Receivable Agreement and (vii) other nonrecurring or unusual items. Because EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are financial measures that management uses to allocate resources, determine our ability to fund capital expenditures, assess performance against our peers, and evaluate overall financial performance, we believe they provide useful information for investors. When EBITDA or Adjusted EBITDA is discussed in reference to performance on a consolidated basis, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure to EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA is Net income (loss). Vistra Adjusted EBITDA — Year Ended December 31, 2022 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2021 ____________ (a) Includes unrealized mark-to-market net gains on interest rate swaps of $250 million and $134 million for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. (b) Includes nuclear fuel amortization in the Texas segment of $86 million and $78 million for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. 69 (c) Net pre-tax unrealized mark-to-market losses on commodity and hedging transactions were driven by an increase in power and natural gas price curves during the year ended December 31, 2022. Additionally, we recorded pre-tax net unrealized losses of $544 million and $298 million in the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, due to the discontinuance of NPNS accounting on retail electric contract portfolios where physical settlement is no longer considered probable throughout the contract term. (d) For the year ended December 31, 2021, includes the following of the Winter Storm Uri impacts, which we believe are not reflective of our normal operating performance: the allocation of ERCOT default uplift charges which were expected to be paid over several decades under protocols existing at the time of the storm, accrual of Koch earn-out amounts that we paid in the second quarter of 2022 (see Note 12 to the Financial Statements), future bill credits related to Winter Storm Uri and Winter Storm Uri related legal fees and other costs. For the year ended December 31, 2022, includes reductions to Adjusted EBITDA reflecting ERCOT default uplift charges of $183 million and bill credit applications of $144 million. The adjustment for ERCOT default uplift charges relates to (i) ERCOT receiving payments that reduced the market wide default balance and (ii) the fourth quarter 2022 derecognition of the remaining default balance in connection with a settlement between Brazos and ERCOT (see Note 12 to the Financial Statements). The adjustment for future bill credits relates to large commercial and industrial customers that curtailed their usage during Winter Storm Uri and will reverse and impact Adjusted EBITDA in future periods as the credits are applied to customer bills.  The Company believes the inclusion of the bill credits as a reduction to Adjusted EBITDA in the years in which such bill credits are applied more accurately reflects its operating performance. ____________ (a) Includes $250 million of unrealized mark-to-market net gains on interest rate swaps. (b) Includes nuclear fuel amortization of $86 million in the Texas segment. (c) Includes the application of bill credits to large commercial and industrial customers that curtailed their usage during Winter Storm Uri and a reduction in the allocation of ERCOT default uplift charges which were expected to be paid over several decades under protocols existing at the time of the storm.  We estimate remaining bill credit amounts to be applied in future periods are for 2023 (approximately $54 million), 2024 (approximately $6 million) and 2025 (approximately $28 million). 70 ____________ (a) Includes $134 million of unrealized mark-to-market net gains on interest rate swaps. (b) Includes nuclear fuel amortization of $78 million in the Texas segment. (c) Includes the following of the Winter Storm Uri impacts, which we believe are not reflective of our operating performance: the allocation of ERCOT default uplift charges which were expected to be paid over several decades under protocols existing at the time of the storm, accrual of Koch earn-out amounts that we paid in the second quarter of 2022, future bill credits related to Winter Storm Uri and Winter Storm Uri related legal fees and other costs.  The adjustment for future bill credits relates to large commercial and industrial customers that curtailed their usage during Winter Storm Uri and reverse and impact Adjusted EBITDA in future periods as the credits are applied to customer bills.  The Company believes the inclusion of the bill credits as a reduction to Adjusted EBITDA in the years in which such bill credits are applied more accurately reflects its operating performance. 71 Retail Segment — Year Ended December 31, 2022 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2021 ____________ (a) Includes pre-tax unrealized net losses of $544 million and $298 million for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, recognized due to the discontinuance of NPNS accounting on a retail electric contract portfolio where physical settlement is no longer considered probable throughout the contract term. (b) Includes unrealized net gains/(losses) from mark-to-market valuations of commodity positions with the Texas, East and Sunset segments. (c) For the year ended December 31, 2021, includes $153 million of future bill credits to large commercial and industrial customers. (d) Reflects cooling degree or heating degree days for the region based on Weather Services International (WSI) data. 72 The following table presents changes in net income (loss) and Adjusted EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. 73 Generation — Year Ended December 31, 2022 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2021 ____________ (a) Reflects cooling degree days or heating degree days for the region based on Weather Services International (WSI) data. 74 ____________ (a) Reflects the average of daily quoted prices for the periods presented and does not reflect costs incurred by us. (b) Reflects the average of day-ahead quoted prices for the periods presented and does not necessarily reflect prices we realized. The following table presents changes in net income (loss) and Adjusted EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The change in Texas segment results was primarily driven by the Winter Storm Uri impacts in 2021.  The increases in revenue net of fuel and operating costs are due to strong generation fleet performance during periods of higher pricing and inflationary pressures, respectively, in the year ended December 31, 2022. Additionally, unrealized hedging losses increased in the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 due to increases in forward power prices in the year ended December 31, 2022. The change in East segment results was primarily driven by (i) higher unrealized hedging losses in the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 due to increases in forward power prices in the year ended December 31, 2022 (ii) lower revenue net of fuel in the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 due primarily to higher-than-expected migration of customers to default service providers at rates below prevailing wholesale market prices and lower capacity revenue and (iii) termination of an unfavorable acquired contract in 2021 which resulted in derecognition of an intangible liability. 75 The change in West segment results was driven by higher unrealized hedging losses in the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 as forward power prices increased more in the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021.  Additionally, revenue net of fuel is higher in the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 reflecting higher realized margins from our battery ESS projects (see Note 2 to the Financial Statements). The change in Sunset segment results was driven by an unfavorable change in revenue net of fuel due primarily to lower generation volumes from coal plants due to industry-wide fuel delivery challenges in the year ended December 31, 2022 and the impairment of assets related to our Miami Fort generation facility (see Note 20 to the Financial Statements). Asset Closure Segment — Year Ended December 31, 2022 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2021 Results and volumes for the Asset Closure segment include those from the Zimmer and Joppa generation plants that we retired in May 2022 and September 2022, respectively.  Operating costs for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 also include ongoing costs associated with the decommissioning and reclamation of retired plants and mines.  The change in Asset Closure segment results for the year ended December 31, 2022 is primarily due to (i) unrealized hedging gains of $31 million related to coal and power derivatives in the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to unrealized losses of $119 million  in the year ended December 31, 2021 and (ii) severance and impairment expense recorded in the year ended December 31, 2021, in connection with plant closure announcements (see Note 3 to the Financial Statements). 76 Energy-Related Commodity Contracts and Mark-to-Market Activities The table below summarizes the changes in commodity contract assets and liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021.  The net change in these assets and liabilities, excluding "other activity" as described below, reflects $2.51 billion and $759 million in unrealized net losses for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, arising from mark-to-market accounting for positions in the commodity contract portfolio. ____________ (a) Represents reversals of previously recognized unrealized gains and losses upon settlement/termination (offsets realized gains and losses recognized in the settlement period).  Excludes changes in fair value in the month the position settled as well as amounts related to positions entered into, and settled, in the same month. (b) Represents unrealized net gains (losses) recognized, reflecting the effect of changes in fair value.  Excludes changes in fair value in the month the position settled as well as amounts related to positions entered into, and settled, in the same month. (c) Represents changes in fair value of positions due to receipt or payment of cash not reflected in unrealized gains or losses.  Amounts are generally related to premiums related to options purchased or sold as well as certain margin deposits classified as settlement for certain transactions executed on the CME. Maturity Table — The following table presents the net commodity contract liability arising from recognition of fair values at December 31, 2022, scheduled by the source of fair value and contractual settlement dates of the underlying positions. FINANCIAL CONDITION Operating Cash Flows Year Ended December 31, 2022 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2021 — Cash provided by operating activities totaled $485 million in the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to cash used in operating activities of $206 million in the year ended December 31, 2021.  The favorable change of $691 million was primarily driven by lower cash from operations in 2021 due to Winter Storm Uri impacts and $544 million of securitization proceeds from ERCOT in 2022 (see Note 1 to the Financial Statements), partially offset by margin deposits of $1.874 billion in 2022 as compared to $1.0 billion in 2021 related to commodity contracts which support our comprehensive hedging strategy. Depreciation and amortization — Depreciation and amortization expense reported as a reconciling adjustment in the consolidated statements of cash flows exceeds the amount reported in the consolidated statements of operations by $451 million, $297 million and $311 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.  The difference represented amortization of nuclear fuel, which is reported as fuel costs in the consolidated statements of operations consistent with industry practice, and amortization of intangible net assets and liabilities that are reported in various other consolidated statements of operations line items including operating revenues and fuel and purchased power costs and delivery fees. 77 Investing Cash Flows Year Ended December 31, 2022 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2021 — Cash used in investing activities totaled $1.239 billion and $1.153 billion in the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.  The increase of $86 million was driven by a $268 million increase in capital expenditures and $50 million in lower insurance proceeds received, partially offset by $185 million in lower net purchases of environmental allowances and $57 million in proceeds from the sale of nuclear fuel. Financing Cash Flows Year Ended December 31, 2022 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2021 — Cash used in financing activities totaled $80 million in the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to cash provided by financing activities of $2.274 billion in the year ended December 31, 2021.  The change of $2.354 billion was driven by the issuance of preferred stock in 2021 and higher share repurchases in 2022, partially offset by increases in net borrowings under our accounts receivable financing facilities and net short-term borrowings in 2022. Debt Activity See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for details of the Receivables Facility and Repurchase Facility and Note 10 to the Financial Statements for details of the Vistra Operations Credit Facilities, the Commodity-Linked Facility and other long-term debt. 78 Available Liquidity The following table summarizes changes in available liquidity for the year ended December 31, 2022: ____________ (a) As of December 31, 2022, available capacity reflects the borrowing base of $1.208 billion less $400 million in cash borrowings.  The borrowing base is less than the facility limit of $1.35 billion. (b) Excludes amounts available to be borrowed under the Receivables Facility and the Repurchase Facility, respectively.  See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for detail on our accounts receivable financing. The $80 million decrease in available liquidity for the year ended December 31, 2022 was primarily driven by $1.949 billion in cash paid for share repurchases, $1.301 billion of capital expenditures (including LTSA prepayments, nuclear fuel and development and growth expenditures), a $418 million increase in letters of credit outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility, $302 million in dividends paid to common stockholders and $151 million in dividends paid to preferred stockholders, partially offset by cash provided by operations, cash received from the issuance of $1.5 billion principal amount of Vistra Operations senior secured notes issued, $808 million in available capacity under the Commodity-Linked Facility under the aggregate commitments in effect as of December 31, 2022, $650 million in additional aggregate commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility resulting from the Credit Agreement Amendments and $425 million in net cash borrowings under the accounts receivable financing facilities. We believe that we will have access to sufficient liquidity to fund our anticipated cash requirements through at least the next 12 months.  Our operational cash flows tend to be seasonal and weighted toward the second half of the year. Higher commodity market prices combined with our comprehensive hedging strategy have resulted in significantly increased collateral posting obligations during the year ended December 31, 2022.  The majority of this collateral relates to hedges in place through 2023 and is expected to be returned as we satisfy our obligations under those contracts.  As of February 23, 2023, Vistra had approximately $2.8 billion of cash and availability under its credit facilities to meet its liquidity needs.  The Company believes it has additional alternatives to maintain access to liquidity, including drawing upon available liquidity, accessing additional sources of capital or reducing capital expenditures, planned voluntary debt repayments or operating costs. The maturities of our long-term debt are relatively modest until 2024.  Interest payments on long-term debt are expected to total approximately $596 million in 2023, $1.082 billion in 2024-2025, $552 million in 2026-2027 and $165 million thereafter.  See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for details of our long-term debt maturities. Our obligations under commodity purchase and services agreements, including capacity payments, nuclear fuel and natural gas take-or-pay contracts, coal contracts, business services and nuclear-related outsourcing and other purchase commitments, are expected to total approximately $3.174 billion in 2023, $2.098 billion in 2024-2025, $919 million in 2026-2027 and $406 million thereafter.  See Note 11 to the Financial Statements for maturities of lease liabilities and Note 12 to the Financial Statements for commitments related to long-term service and maintenance contracts. Capital Expenditures Estimated 2023 capital expenditures and nuclear fuel purchases as of November 4, 2022 total approximately $2.023 billion and include: • $977 billion for solar and energy storage development; • $744 million for investments in generation and mining facilities; • $139 million for nuclear fuel purchases; • $12 million for plant winterization investment, information technology and other corporate investments; and • $151 million for other growth expenditures. 79 Liquidity Effects of Commodity Hedging and Trading Activities We have entered into commodity hedging and trading transactions that require us to post collateral if the forward price of the underlying commodity moves such that the hedging or trading instrument we hold has declined in value.  We use cash, letters of credit and other forms of credit support to satisfy such collateral posting obligations.  See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for discussion of the Vistra Operations Credit Facilities and the Commodity-Linked Facility. Exchange cleared transactions typically require initial margin ( i.e. , the upfront cash and/or letter of credit posted to take into account the size and maturity of the positions and credit quality) in addition to variation margin ( i.e. , the daily cash margin posted to take into account changes in the value of the underlying commodity).  The amount of initial margin required is generally defined by exchange rules.  Clearing agents, however, typically have the right to request additional initial margin based on various factors, including market depth, volatility and credit quality, which may be in the form of cash, letters of credit, a guaranty or other forms as negotiated with the clearing agent.  Cash collateral received from counterparties is either used for working capital and other business purposes, including reducing borrowings under credit facilities, or is required to be deposited in a separate account and restricted from being used for working capital and other corporate purposes.  With respect to over-the-counter transactions, counterparties generally have the right to substitute letters of credit for such cash collateral.  In such event, the cash collateral previously posted would be returned to such counterparties, which would reduce liquidity in the event the cash was not restricted. As of December 31, 2022, we received or posted cash and letters of credit for commodity hedging and trading activities as follows: • $3.137 billion in cash has been posted with counterparties as compared to $1.263 billion posted at December 31, 2021; • $39 million in cash has been received from counterparties as compared to $39 million received at December 31, 2021; • $2.314 billion in letters of credit have been posted with counterparties as compared to $1.558 billion posted at December 31, 2021; and • $74 million in letters of credit have been received from counterparties as compared to $35 million received at December 31, 2021. See Collateral Support Obligations below for information related to collateral posted in accordance with the PUCT and ISO/RTO rules. Income Tax Payments In the next 12 months, we do not expect to make federal income tax payments due to Vistra's NOL carryforwards.  We expect to make approximately $27 million in state income tax payments, offset by $13 million in state tax refunds, and $8 million in TRA payments in the next 12 months. For the year ended December 31, 2022, there was $1 million in federal income tax payments, $33 million in state income tax payments, $8 million in state income tax refunds and $1 million in TRA payments. Capitalization Our capitalization ratios consisted of 71% and 56% long-term debt (less amounts due currently) and 29% and 44% stockholders' equity at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.  Total long-term debt (including amounts due currently) to capitalization was 71% and 56% at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. 80 Financial Covenants The Vistra Operations Credit Agreement and the Vistra Operations Commodity-Linked Credit Agreement each includes a covenant, solely with respect to the Revolving Credit Facility and the Commodity-Linked Facility and solely during a compliance period (which, in general, is applicable when the aggregate revolving borrowings and issued revolving letters of credit exceed 30% of the revolving commitments, provided that solely with respect to the Revolving Credit Facility only such amounts in excess of $300 million are taken into account for purposes of determining whether a compliance period is in effect), that requires the consolidated first-lien net leverage ratio not to exceed 4.25 to 1.00 (or, during a collateral suspension period, not to exceed 5.50 to 1.00).  In addition, each of the Secured LOC Facilities includes a covenant that requires the consolidated first-lien net leverage ratio not to exceed 4.25 to 1.00 (or, for certain facilities that include a collateral suspension mechanism, during a collateral suspension period, not to exceed 5.50 to 1.00).  As of December 31, 2022, we were in compliance with the Vistra Operations Credit Agreement and Secured LOC Facilities financial covenants.  Although the period ended December 31, 2022 was not a compliance period for the Vistra Operations Commodity-Linked Credit Agreement, we would have been in compliance with this financial covenant if it was required to be tested at such time. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for discussion of other covenants related to the Vistra Operations Credit Facilities. Collateral Support Obligations The RCT has rules in place to assure that parties can meet their mining reclamation obligations.  In September 2016, the RCT agreed to a collateral bond of up to $975 million to support Luminant's reclamation obligations.  The collateral bond is effectively a first lien on all of Vistra Operations' assets (which ranks pari passu with the Vistra Operations Credit Facilities) that contractually enables the RCT to be paid (up to $975 million) before the other first-lien lenders in the event of a liquidation of our assets.  Collateral support relates to land mined or being mined and not yet reclaimed as well as land for which permits have been obtained but mining activities have not yet begun and land already reclaimed but not released from regulatory obligations by the RCT, and includes cost contingency amounts. The PUCT has rules in place to assure adequate creditworthiness of each REP, including the ability to return customer deposits, if necessary.  Under these rules, at December 31, 2022, Vistra has posted letters of credit in the amount of $74 million with the PUCT, which is subject to adjustments. The ISOs/RTOs we operate in have rules in place to assure adequate creditworthiness of parties that participate in the markets operated by those ISOs/RTOs.  Under these rules, Vistra has posted collateral support totaling $525 million in the form of letters of credit, $30 million in the form of a surety bond and $17 million of cash at December 31, 2022 (which is subject to daily adjustments based on settlement activity with the ISOs/RTOs). Material Cross Default/Acceleration Provisions Certain of our contractual arrangements contain provisions that could result in an event of default if there were a failure under financing arrangements to meet payment terms or to observe covenants that could result in an acceleration of payments due.  Such provisions are referred to as "cross default" or "cross acceleration" provisions. A default by Vistra Operations or any of its restricted subsidiaries in respect of certain specified indebtedness in an aggregate amount in excess of $300 million may result in a cross default under the Vistra Operations Credit Facilities.  Such a default would allow the lenders to accelerate the maturity of outstanding balances under such facilities, which totaled approximately $2.764 billion at December 31, 2022. Each of Vistra Operations' (or its subsidiaries') commodity hedging agreements and interest rate swap agreements that are secured with a lien on its assets on a pari passu basis with the Vistra Operations Credit Facilities lenders contains a cross-default provision.  An event of a default by Vistra Operations or any of its subsidiaries relating to indebtedness equal to or above a threshold defined in the applicable agreement that results in the acceleration of such debt, would give such counterparty under these hedging agreements the right to terminate its hedge or interest rate swap agreement with Vistra Operations (or its applicable subsidiary) and require all outstanding obligations under such agreement to be settled. 81 Under the Vistra Operations Senior Unsecured Indentures and the Vistra Operations Senior Secured Indenture, a default under any document evidencing indebtedness for borrowed money by Vistra Operations or any Guarantor Subsidiary for failure to pay principal when due at final maturity or that results in the acceleration of such indebtedness in an aggregate amount of $300 million or more may result in a cross default under the Vistra Operations Senior Unsecured Notes, the Senior Secured Notes, the Vistra Operations Credit Facilities, the Receivables Facility, the Commodity-Linked Facility and other current or future documents evidencing any indebtedness for borrowed money by the applicable borrower or issuer, as the case may be, and the applicable Guarantor Subsidiaries party thereto. Additionally, we enter into energy-related physical and financial contracts, the master forms of which contain provisions whereby an event of default or acceleration of settlement would occur if we were to default under an obligation in respect of borrowings in excess of thresholds, which may vary by contract. The Receivables Facility contains a cross-default provision. The cross-default provision applies, among other instances, if TXU Energy, Dynegy Energy Services, Ambit Texas, Value Based Brands and TriEagle, each indirect subsidiaries of Vistra and originators under the Receivables Facility (Originators), fails to make a payment of principal or interest on any indebtedness that is outstanding in a principal amount of at least $300 million, or, in the case of TXU Energy or any of the other Originators, in a principal amount of at least $50 million, after the expiration of any applicable grace period, or if other events occur or circumstances exist under such indebtedness which give rise to a right of the debtholder to accelerate such indebtedness, or if such indebtedness becomes due before its stated maturity.  If this cross-default provision is triggered, a termination event under the Receivables Facility would occur and the Receivables Facility may be terminated. The Repurchase Facility contains a cross-default provision.  The cross-default provision applies, among other instances, if an event of default (or similar event) occurs under the Receivables Facility or the Vistra Operations Credit Facilities.  If this cross-default provision is triggered, a termination event under the Repurchase Facility would occur and the Repurchase Facility may be terminated. Under the Secured LOC Facilities, a default under any document evidencing indebtedness for borrowed money by Vistra Operations or any Guarantor Subsidiary for failure to pay principal when due at final maturity or that results in the acceleration of such indebtedness in an aggregate amount of $300 million or more, may result in a termination of the Secured LOC Facilities. Under the Commodity-Linked Facility, a default under any document evidencing indebtedness for borrowed money by Vistra Operations or any Guarantor Subsidiary for failure to pay principal when due at final maturity or that results in the acceleration of such indebtedness in an aggregate amount of $300 million or more, may result in a termination of the Commodity-Linked Facility. Guarantees See Note 12 to the Financial Statements for discussion of guarantees. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES See Note 12 to the Financial Statements for discussion of commitments and contingencies. CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING STANDARDS See Note 1 to the Financial Statements for discussion of changes in accounting standards.