********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

We operate in a complex and rapidly changing environment that involves risks, many of which are beyond our control. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends, and/or stock price could be materially affected by any of these risks, if they occur, or by other factors not currently known to us, or not currently considered to be material. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this Form 10-K, as well as our other filings with the SEC. Our risk factors are organized into six categories: Combination, Strategic, Operational, Compliance, Finance and General. Summary Below is a summary of some of the more significant risks and uncertainties we face. This summary is not exhaustive and is qualified by reference to the full set of risk factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A. • Combination Risks 17 ◦ The integration of the Upjohn Business with Mylan following the Combination, as well as our global restructuring program, may present significant challenges. ◦ Viatris may not realize the anticipated benefits from the Combination or its global restructuring program. ◦ Viatris could incur operational difficulties or losses if Pfizer is unable to perform under the agreements entered into as part of the Combination, if we are unable to obtain the same types and level of services and resources that historically have been provided to the legacy Upjohn Business by Pfizer, or if we are required to make payments to Pfizer pursuant to indemnities agreed to as part of the Combination. • Strategic Risks ◦ Our strategic initiatives, including our strategic alliances, may not achieve all intended benefits. ◦ We have and may continue to experience pressure on the pricing of and reimbursements for certain of our products due to pricing controls, social or government pressure to lower the cost of drugs, and consolidation across the supply chain. ◦ We have significant operations globally, which exposes us to the risks inherent in conducting our business internationally. ◦ Charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. • Operational Risks ◦ Public health outbreaks, epidemics and pandemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic, have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or stock price and may impact our ability to pay dividends. ◦ Current and changing economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business, partners and suppliers. ◦ The pharmaceutical industry is heavily regulated, and we face significant costs and uncertainties associated with our efforts to comply with applicable laws and regulations. ◦ The use of legal, regulatory, and legislative strategies by both brand and generic competitors, including but not limited to “authorized generics” and regulatory petitions, may increase costs associated with the introduction or marketing of our generic products, could delay or prevent such introduction, and could significantly reduce our revenue and profit. ◦ If we are unable to successfully introduce new products in a timely manner, our future revenue and profitability may be adversely affected. ◦ We expend a significant amount of resources on R&D efforts that may not lead to successful product introductions. ◦ Even if our products in development receive regulatory approval, such products may not achieve expected levels of market acceptance. ◦ The development, approval process, manufacture and commercialization of biosimilar products involve unique challenges and uncertainties, and our failure to successfully introduce biosimilar products could have a negative impact on our business and future operating results. ◦ Our business is highly dependent upon market perceptions of us, our products and brands, and the safety and quality of our products and brands, as well as the effectiveness of our sales and marketing activities, and we may be adversely impacted by negative publicity or findings. ◦ We have a limited number of manufacturing facilities and certain third-party suppliers produce a substantial portion of our API and products, some of which require a highly exacting and complex manufacturing process. • Compliance Risks ◦ We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, Chinese anti-corruption laws and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws, which impose restrictions on certain conduct and may carry substantial fines and penalties. ◦ Our competitors, including branded pharmaceutical companies, and/or other third parties, may allege that we or our suppliers are infringing upon their intellectual property, including in an “at risk launch” situation, which could result in substantial monetary damages, impact our ability to launch a product and/or our ability to continue marketing a product, and/or force us to expend substantial resources in resulting litigation, the outcome of which is uncertain. ◦ We are involved in various legal proceedings and certain government inquiries and may experience unfavorable outcomes of such proceedings or inquiries. ◦ If we fail to comply with our corporate integrity agreement, we could be subject to substantial penalties and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. ◦ We are increasingly dependent on IT and our systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including cybersecurity and data leakage risks. 18 • Finance Risks ◦ Viatris’ future dividend payments cannot be guaranteed. ◦ We may not be able to maintain competitive financial flexibility and our corporate tax rate which could adversely affect us and our shareholders ◦ We have significant indebtedness, which could lead to adverse consequences or adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under such indebtedness, and any refinancing of this debt could be at significantly higher interest rates. ◦ There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Any future changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions used or necessary revisions to prior estimates, judgments or assumptions or changes in accounting standards could lead to a restatement or revision to previously issued financial statements. ◦ Viatris could suffer additional losses due to asset impairment charges. Combination Risks The integration of the Upjohn Business with Mylan following the Combination, as well as our global restructuring program, may present significant challenges. The combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process and there is a significant degree of difficulty inherent in the process of integrating the Upjohn Business and Mylan. These difficulties include: • diversion of management’s attention from the ongoing operations of Viatris to integration and restructuring matters; • the challenge of integrating the employees and business cultures of the Upjohn Business and Mylan; • retaining existing customers and suppliers, or obtaining new customers and suppliers; • risks associated with managing a larger and more complex company; • the challenge and cost of integrating manufacturing, logistics, information technology, communications and other systems of the Upjohn Business and Mylan; • the potential difficulty retaining key personnel and other employees of Mylan and the Upjohn Business; • challenges in reducing reliance on certain transition services provided by Pfizer prior to the expiration of any period in which such services are provided; and • reducing costs associated with the transition services provided by Pfizer. In addition to integration activities with respect to Mylan and the Upjohn Business, on November 16, 2020, Viatris announced a significant global restructuring program in order to achieve specified synergies over the next four years, or sooner, and ensure the new company is optimally structured and efficiently resourced to deliver sustainable value to patients, shareholders, customers, and other stakeholders. This Viatris restructuring program incorporates and expands upon a prior Mylan restructuring program. On December 11, 2020 and February 25, 2021, Viatris disclosed additional details related to this global restructuring program that may impact up to 20% of its global workforce and includes the closing, downsizing or divesting of up to 15 manufacturing facilities. The process of integrating operations and implementing restructuring initiatives could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of Viatris’ businesses. These integration and restructuring processes are ongoing and members of Viatris’ senior management are required to devote considerable amounts of time to these processes, which could decrease the time they have to manage and service Viatris’ businesses, and develop new products or strategies. There is no assurance that Viatris will be able to manage this integration or restructuring in the manner or on the timelines currently anticipated. If our senior management is not able to timely and effectively manage these integration or restructuring processes, significant business activities are interrupted, or there is a delay or inability to achieve anticipated integration or restructuring goals, Viatris may not be able to achieve its synergy targets and there could be a material adverse effect on Viatris’ business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. Viatris may not realize the anticipated benefits from the Combination or its global restructuring program. Viatris is expected to realize synergies, growth opportunities, and other financial and operating benefits as a result of the Combination. Viatris’ success in realizing these benefits, and the timing of their realization, depends on the successful integration of the Upjohn Business with Mylan, as well as the success of our global restructuring program. See “ The integration of the Upjohn Business with Mylan following the Combination, as well as our global restructuring program, may present significant challenges ” above. Even if the integration and restructuring program are successful, we may not achieve these synergies, growth opportunities and other financial and operating benefits within the timeline we anticipate, or at all. For 19 example, the benefits from the Combination may be offset by significant costs incurred in connection with our global restructuring program and the Combination, including integration and post-closing costs, costs associated with our TSAs with Pfizer, and capital expenditures, which could be higher than currently estimated. The quantification of synergies expected to result from the Combination is based on significant estimates and assumptions that are subjective in nature and inherently uncertain. Realization of any benefits and synergies could be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including, without limitation, general economic conditions, increased operating costs, regulatory developments, and the other risks described in these risk factors. In addition, our ability to achieve our synergy targets depends in large part on the successful implementation of the initiatives under our global restructuring program, which may not achieve their intended goals. The amount of synergies actually realized as a result of the Combination, if any, and the time periods in which any such synergies are realized, could differ materially from our current expectations and estimates, regardless of whether the two business operations are combined successfully. In addition, if key personnel and other employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration activities, Viatris’ ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Combination could be reduced. If the integration or our global restructuring program are unsuccessful, if the estimated costs are higher than anticipated, or if we are unable to realize the anticipated synergies and other benefits of the Combination, there could be a material adverse effect on Viatris’ business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. Viatris could incur operational difficulties or losses if Pfizer is unable to perform under the agreements entered into as part of the Combination, if we are unable to obtain the same types and level of services and resources that historically have been provided to the legacy Upjohn Business by Pfizer, or if we are required to make payments to Pfizer pursuant to indemnities agreed to as part of the Combination. In connection with the Combination, Viatris entered into several agreements with Pfizer or its subsidiaries, including among others, transition services and the manufacturing and supply agreements, which in general provide for the performance of certain services or obligations by each of Pfizer and Viatris for the benefit of each other for a transitional period following the Combination. If either party is unable to satisfy its obligations under such agreements in a timely manner or at all, or if the transitional agreements fail to provide for or cover certain essential services needed by Viatris during the applicable transitional period, we have limited recourse and could incur operational difficulties or losses or face liability. In particular, the legacy Upjohn Business historically received benefits and services from Pfizer. Viatris no longer benefits from Pfizer’s services or business relationships to the extent not otherwise addressed in the definitive documents entered into in connection with the Combination. While Pfizer has agreed to provide certain transition services to Viatris for a transitional period following the Combination, such services may not provide benefits equivalent to the services provided when the Upjohn Business was operating as a part of Pfizer. Viatris may not be able to adequately replace resources formerly provided by Pfizer, or replace such services at the same or lower cost. Viatris may also need to make significant investments to replicate or outsource from other providers certain facilities, systems, infrastructure, and personnel to which it no longer has access and may incur significant costs to replace such services. In addition, we may experience operational disruptions associated with ending the transition services that Pfizer has agreed to provide Viatris under the transition agreements as Viatris transitions off of and attempts to replace these services. Further, because Viatris is reliant on Pfizer for such services during the transitional period, any interruption, disruption or breach of Pfizer’s systems relating to such services, including information technology and information security systems, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In connection with such transition services, Viatris and Pfizer agreed, among other things, that each of them will each bear 50% of the first $380 million of certain reasonable out-of-pocket costs incurred by Pfizer in connection with the services, with Viatris bearing all of such costs in excess of $380 million. In addition, in connection with the Combination, Viatris agreed to indemnify Pfizer for certain liabilities. Any payments pursuant to these indemnities could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends or stock price. See “ We are involved in various legal proceedings and certain government inquiries and may experience unfavorable outcomes of such proceedings or inquiries ” below. Viatris may be subject to significant U.S. tax liabilities, or be obligated to indemnify Pfizer for any such tax liability imposed on Pfizer and is subject to potentially significant restrictions that could limit its ability to undertake certain corporate actions (such as stock issuances or the undertaking of a merger or consolidation). In connection with the Combination, Pfizer received the IRS Ruling and the Tax Opinion, each to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Distribution, together with certain related transactions, will qualify as a tax-free “reorganization” within the meaning of Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, the Distribution will qualify as a tax-free distribution 20 within the meaning of Section 355 of the Code and the Pfizer Distribution Payments will qualify as money distributed to Pfizer creditors or stockholders in connection with the reorganization for purposes of Section 361(b) of the Code. Although the IRS Ruling is generally binding on the IRS, the continuing validity of the IRS Ruling is subject to the accuracy of the factual representations made in the ruling request. An opinion of tax counsel neither binds the IRS nor precludes the IRS or the courts from adopting a contrary position. Accordingly, notwithstanding the IRS Ruling and Tax Opinion, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not assert a position contrary to one or more of the conclusions set forth herein and if the IRS prevails in such challenge, the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the Distribution, together with certain related transactions, to Pfizer, Viatris and the holders of Pfizer common stock could be materially different from, and worse than, the U.S. federal income tax consequences described below. If the Distribution were determined not to have qualified for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code, Pfizer would generally be subject to tax as if it sold the Viatris common stock in a transaction taxable to Pfizer, which could result in a material tax liability that, under certain circumstances, Viatris may be required to indemnify Pfizer against pursuant to the Tax Matters Agreement. Even if the Distribution were otherwise to qualify as a tax-free transaction under Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Code, the Distribution would be taxable to Pfizer (but not to Pfizer’s stockholders) pursuant to Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code if there were a 50 percent or greater change in ownership of either Pfizer or Viatris, directly or indirectly, as part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the Distribution. For this purpose, any acquisitions of Pfizer or Viatris common stock within the period beginning two years before the Distribution and ending two years after the Distribution are presumed to be part of such a plan, although Pfizer may be able to rebut that presumption. For purposes of this test, the Combination will be treated as part of a plan, but the Combination standing alone will not cause the Distribution to be taxable to Pfizer under Section 355(e) of the Code because holders immediately before the Distribution of Pfizer common stock directly owned more than 50 percent of Viatris common stock immediately following the Combination. Nevertheless, if the IRS were to determine that other acquisitions of Pfizer common stock or Viatris common stock, either before or after the Distribution, were part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the Distribution, such determination could result in the recognition of a material amount of taxable gain for U.S. federal income tax purposes by Pfizer under Section 355(e) of the Code. Under the Tax Matters Agreement, Viatris will be required to indemnify Pfizer against any taxes resulting from the Distribution or certain aspects of the Separation that arise as a result of Viatris’ breach of certain representations or covenants in the Tax Matters Agreement or certain other acts or omissions by Viatris, including certain actions that could result in Section 355(e) of the Code applying to the Distribution. If Viatris was required to indemnify Pfizer for taxes resulting from the Distribution or certain aspects of the Separation, that indemnification obligation could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on Viatris, including with respect to our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Tax Matters Agreement generally prohibits Viatris and its affiliates from taking certain actions that could cause the Distribution and certain related transactions to fail to qualify as tax-free transactions to Pfizer and its stockholders. Furthermore, unless an exception applies, for a two-year period following the date of the Distribution, Viatris and its subsidiaries may not: • engage in transactions in which Viatris’ stock is acquired; • engage in certain mergers or consolidations; • discontinue the active conduct of the Upjohn Business; • sell certain assets; • redeem or repurchase any of Viatris’ stock (other than share repurchases permitted by the IRS Ruling); or • amend the Viatris Charter or take any other action affecting the relative voting rights of any of its stock or stock rights. If Viatris intends to take certain restricted actions, it must notify Pfizer of the proposal to take such action and either (a) obtain a ruling from the IRS or an unqualified opinion acceptable to Pfizer to the effect that such action will not affect the tax-free status of the Distribution and certain related transactions or (b) receive from Pfizer a waiver of such requirement. However, none of the receipt of an IRS ruling, an unqualified tax opinion or a waiver by Pfizer will relieve Viatris of any responsibility to indemnify Pfizer for tax-related losses resulting from such actions. As a result of these restrictions and indemnification obligations under the Tax Matters Agreement, Viatris may be limited in its ability to pursue strategic transactions, equity or convertible debt financings or other transactions that may otherwise be in our best interests. Strategic Risks Our strategic initiatives, including our strategic alliances, may not achieve all intended benefits. 21 In addition to the integration and restructuring activities discussed above, we have entered into and continue to consider and evaluate various strategic transactions and business arrangements on an ongoing basis, including acquisitions, asset purchases, partnerships, collaborations, joint ventures, divestitures, product rationalization and investments. These transactions and arrangements may be material both from a strategic and financial perspective. There can be no assurance that we will be able to fully realize the expected benefits of any such transactions or arrangements. Furthermore, although our expectation is to engage in divestitures and product rationalizations only if they advance or otherwise support our overall strategy, any such sale could reduce the size or scope of our business, our market share in particular markets or our opportunities with respect to certain markets or products. We have also entered into strategic alliances with partners to develop, manufacture, market and/or distribute certain products, and/or certain components of our products, in various markets. We commit substantial effort, funds and other resources to these various collaborations, including with respect to the development of biosimilar products. There is a risk that the investments made by us in these collaborative arrangements will not generate financial returns. While we believe our relationships with our partners generally are successful, disputes or conflicting priorities and regulatory or legal intervention could be a source of delay or uncertainty as to the expected benefits of the collaboration. In addition, we enter into agreements with our collaboration partners that provide for certain services, as well as cross manufacturing, development and licensing arrangements. In addition, our Global Healthcare Gateway may not achieve all of its expected benefits. The overall execution of a strategic initiative may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships, and diversion of management’s and/or employee’s attention, among other potential adverse consequences. In addition, we may have to terminate a strategic alliance, or our collaboration partners may be unable to fulfill their collaboration obligations. Any of the risks described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. We have and may continue to experience pressure on the pricing of and reimbursements for certain of our products due to pricing controls, social or government pressure to lower the cost of drugs, and consolidation across the supply chain. We operate in a challenging environment, with significant pressures on the pricing of our products and on our ability to obtain and maintain satisfactory rates of reimbursement for our products by governments, insurers and other payors. The growth of overall healthcare costs has led governments and payors to implement new measures to control healthcare spending. As a result, we face numerous cost-containment measures by governments and other payors, including certain government-imposed industry-wide price reductions, mandatory rebates or pricing, international reference pricing (i.e., the practice of a country linking its regulated medicine prices to those of other countries), volume-based procurement, tender systems, shifting of the payment burden to patients through higher co-payments, and requirements for increased transparency on pricing. This international patchwork of price regulation and differing economic conditions and incomplete value assessments across countries has led to varying access to quality medicine in many markets and some third party trade in our products between countries and may have an adverse impact on the pricing of our products. Many markets in which we operate have implemented or may implement tender systems for generic pharmaceuticals in an effort to lower prices. Under such tender systems, manufacturers submit bids which establish prices for generic pharmaceutical products. Upon winning the tender, the winning company will receive a preferential reimbursement for a period of time. If our bids do not win, we may not be able to participate in the given market or may lose out on market share. In addition, if customers to whom we supply API do not win their tender bids, the amount of API that we sell to them may be reduced. The tender system often results in companies underbidding one another by proposing low pricing in order to win the tender. Other markets may also consider the implementation of a tender system or have implemented, or plan to implement, government mandated price reductions and/or other forms of price controls. Even if a tender system or other price controls are ultimately not implemented, the anticipation of such could result in price reductions. In China, pricing pressures have increased in recent years, and the Chinese government has also increased its focus on patient access and reimbursement for pharmaceutical medicines. For example, in 2013, China began to implement a QCE process for post-LOE products to improve the quality of domestically manufactured generic drugs, primarily by requiring such drugs to pass a test to assess their bioequivalence to a qualified reference drug (typically the originator drug). In addition, VBP policy for post- LOE products is now in its third year and includes more than 150 molecules. While all major Viatris brands are already included in the VBP molecule list, historically we have had limited success in the bidding process and most contracts went to local Chinese generic companies. In addition, the bidding process has resulted in significant price cuts for the molecules included with some bidders reducing the price of their products by as much as 96% as they attempt to secure volumes on the Chinese pharmaceutical market. We expect pricing pressures on our products included in the VBP program to continue to increase as a result of these programs, and Viatris may be unable to successfully win contracts through these centralized procurement projects in the future. We have failed, and may continue to fail, to win bids due to various factors, including 22 uncompetitive bidding prices. In addition, the URP policy will cap reimbursement of molecules at their VBP tender winning price. URP will create additional pricing and volume pressure for pharmaceutical products that are subject to the program and is expected to negatively impact our results of operations. Demand for our products also depends in part on the extent to which reimbursements are available. In the U.S., third-party payors increasingly challenge the pricing of pharmaceutical products. These trends and other trends toward managed healthcare, the vertical consolidation among insurers, PBMs and pharmacies, and legislative healthcare reform create significant uncertainties regarding the future levels of reimbursement for pharmaceutical products. Further, any reimbursement may be reduced in the future to the point that market demand for our products and/or our profitability declines. Changes to Medicare and/or state Medicaid programs, or changes required in the way in which Medicare payment rates are set, the design of the Medicare Part D benefit, and/or the way Medicaid rebates are calculated, could adversely affect the payment we receive for our products. In order to control expenditures on pharmaceuticals, most member states in the EU regulate the pricing of products and, in some cases, limit the range of different forms of pharmaceuticals available for prescription by national health services. These controls can result in considerable price differences between member states. There has also been increasing U.S. federal and state legislative and enforcement interest with respect to drug pricing, as well as from international organizations like the United Nations, World Health Organization and Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, in addition to intense publicity and scrutiny regarding such matters, including publicity and pressure resulting from prices charged by competitors and peer companies for new products as well as price increases by competitors and peer companies on older products that some have deemed excessive. In particular, U.S. federal prosecutors have issued subpoenas to pharmaceutical companies, including Mylan, seeking information about their drug pricing practices, among other issues. The U.S. Congress has also conducted hearings with respect to drug pricing and members of Congress have sought information from certain pharmaceutical companies, including Mylan, relating to drug-price increases. In addition, there have been legislation and legislative and regulatory proposals concerning drug prices and related issues, including the perceived need to bring more transparency to drug pricing, reviewing the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reforming government program reimbursement methodologies for drugs. In the U.S., in addition to new state transparency laws and the introduction of several federal pricing bills, several executive orders were signed and rules were issued in 2020 relating to drug pricing, some of which have been delayed and/or are the subject of litigation. These new orders and rules related to Medicare Part D rebate reform, providing discounted insulin and/or EpiPen® Auto-Injector to patients in Federally Qualified Health Centers, drug importation from Canada, and most favored nation pricing for Medicare. Although we expect to see continued focus in regulating pricing, we cannot predict what, if any, additional legislative or regulatory developments may transpire at the state or country level, particularly given a new administration and changes in control of Congress, or what the ultimate impact may be. In the U.S., certain of these pressures are further compounded by increasing consolidation among wholesalers, retailer drug chains, PBMs, private insurers, managed care organizations and other private payors, which can increase their negotiating power, particularly with respect to our generic drugs. Please also refer to “ A significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales to a limited number of customers.” The international patchwork of price regulation, failing to win tenders, the implementation of price control systems, adverse legislation and regulation, the consolidation of our customers, or continued social or government pressure to lower the cost of pharmaceutical products could have a material adverse impact on our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. Healthcare reform legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business. In recent years, there have been numerous initiatives on the federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms affecting the payment for, the availability of and reimbursement for, healthcare services in the U.S., and it is likely that Congress and state legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on healthcare reform in the future. While the ACA increased the number of patients who have insurance coverage for our products, it also included provisions such as the assessment of a pharmaceutical manufacturer fee and an increase in the amount of rebates that manufacturers pay for coverage of their drugs by Medicaid programs. The ACA may be subject to revisions and modifications in the future. Further, Congress continues to consider drug pricing legislation that, if passed and signed into law, could impact companies’ ability to increase prices for products beyond the rate of inflation. We are unable to predict the future course of federal or state healthcare legislation or reform, including temporary or permanent healthcare reform measures resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic or the outcome of challenges to such laws or reforms once passed. The ACA and further changes in the law or regulatory framework that reduce our revenues or increase our 23 costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. Additionally, we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. In the EU and some other international markets, the government provides healthcare at low cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices, patient eligibility and/or reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. These systems of price regulations may lead to inconsistent and lower prices. Within the EU and in other countries, the availability of our products in some markets at lower prices undermines our sales in other markets with higher prices. Additionally, certain countries set prices by reference to the prices in other countries where our products are marketed. Thus, our inability to secure adequate prices in a particular country may also impair our ability to obtain acceptable prices in existing and potential new markets and may create the opportunity for third party cross-border trade. Significant additional reforms to the U.S. or EU healthcare systems, or to the healthcare systems of other markets in which we operate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. We have significant operations globally, which exposes us to the risks inherent in conducting our business internationally. Our operations extend to numerous countries globally and therefore are subject to the risks inherent in this geographic scope. These risks include, but are not limited to: • the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic; • compliance with the national and local laws, regulations and customs of countries in which we do business, including, but not limited to, data privacy and protection, import/export and enforcement of intellectual property protections; • less established legal and regulatory regimes in certain jurisdictions, including China, where the interpretation and enforcement of laws, rules and regulations may involve uncertainties and can be inconsistent; • that litigation, administrative and court proceedings may be protracted, expensive and unpredictable; • that governments in certain jurisdictions may favor local businesses and make it more difficult for foreign businesses to operate on an equal footing; • increased uncertainties related to the enforcement of contracts with certain parties; • compliance with a variety of U.S. laws including, but not limited to, regulations put forth by the U.S. Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 and rules relating to the use of certain “conflict minerals” under Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and the Consumer Protection Act; • changes in laws, regulations, and practices affecting the pharmaceutical industry and the healthcare system, including but not limited to imports, exports, manufacturing, quality, cost, pricing, reimbursement, approval, inspection, and delivery of healthcare; • changes in policies designed to promote foreign investment, including significant tax incentives, liberalized import and export duties, and preferential rules on foreign investment and repatriation; • increased U.S. Congressional and executive branch scrutiny of overseas pharmaceutical manufacturing, including executive orders and policy proposals related to increasing U.S. production of pharmaceutical products and API; • differing local product preferences and product requirements; • adverse changes in the economies in which we or our partners and suppliers operate as a result of a slowdown in overall growth, a change in government or economic policies, or financial, political, or social change or instability in such countries that affects the markets in which we operate, particularly emerging markets; • changes in employment or labor laws, wage increases, or rising inflation in the countries in which we or our partners and suppliers operate; • local, regional and global restrictions on banking and commercial activities in certain markets, especially emerging markets; • longer payment cycles and increased exposure to counterparty risk; • volatility in international financial markets and increased foreign currency risk; • risks and uncertainties related to the formal withdrawal of the U.K. from the EU, commonly referred to as Brexit, and the subsequent entry into a trade agreement that governs the U.K.’s relationship with the EU, including with respect to divergent national laws and regulations, import/export restrictions, delays in regulatory approvals and changes in pharmaceutical regulations governing marketing authorizations in the EU and the U.K., which could materially impact the way we conduct our operations in those markets; • supply disruptions and increases in energy and transportation costs; 24 • increased tariffs on the import or export of our products or API, including on imports from China to the U.S. as a result of the escalation of trade tensions between the countries or otherwise; • burdens to comply with multiple, changing and potentially conflicting foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to the environment, carbon emissions, health and safety, labor and human rights; • natural or man-made disasters, including droughts, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes and the impact of climate change in the countries in which we or our partners and suppliers operate; and • local disturbances, the outbreak of highly contagious diseases or other health epidemics (such as COVID-19), terrorist attacks, riots, social disruption, wars, or regional hostilities in the countries in which we or our partners and suppliers operate and that could affect the economy, our operations and employees by disrupting operations and communications, making travel and the conduct of our business more difficult, and/or causing our customers to be concerned about our ability to meet their needs. We also face the risk that some of our competitors have more experience with operations in such countries or with international operations generally and may be able to manage unexpected crises more easily. Moreover, the internal political stability of, or the relationship between, any country or countries where we conduct business operations may deteriorate. Changes in a country’s political stability or the state of relations between any such countries are difficult to predict and the political or social stability in and/or diplomatic relations between any countries in which we or our partners and suppliers do business could meaningfully deteriorate. The occurrence of any one or more of the above risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. Charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price . Under U.S. GAAP provisions relating to business acquisition accounting standards, we recognize the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interests in acquired companies generally at their acquisition date fair values and, in each case, separately from goodwill. Goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess amount of consideration transferred, which is also generally measured at fair value, and the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. Our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain. After we complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results and may adversely affect our cash flows: • costs incurred to combine the operations of companies we acquire, such as transitional employee expenses and employee retention, redeployment or relocation expenses; • liabilities assumed in purchase accounting; • impairment of goodwill or intangible assets, including acquired IPR&D; • amortization of intangible assets acquired; • a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired; • identification of or changes to assumed contingent liabilities, including, but not limited to, litigation reserves, contingent purchase price consideration including fair value adjustments, income tax contingencies and other non-income tax contingencies, after our final determination of the amounts for these contingencies or the conclusion of the measurement period (generally up to one year from the acquisition date), whichever comes first; • charges to our operating results to eliminate certain duplicative pre-acquisition activities, including exiting TSAs with Pfizer; • significant costs to restructure our operations and to reduce our cost structure, including cost related to severance payments, plant shutdowns and costs to achieve anticipated synergies; and • charges to our operating results resulting from expenses incurred to effect the acquisition. A significant portion of these adjustments could be accounted for as expenses that will decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those costs are incurred. In particular, the amount of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets in our consolidated balance sheets is significant as a result of our acquisitions and other transactions, and may increase further following future potential acquisitions, and we may, from time to time, sell assets that we determine are not critical to our strategy or execution. Future events or decisions may also lead to asset impairments and/or related charges. Certain non-cash impairments may result from a change in our strategic goals, business direction or other factors relating to the overall business environment. Any such charges could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. 25 We applied purchase accounting to the Combination and determined that Mylan was the accounting acquirer in the Combination for purposes of applying purchase accounting to the acquired assets and assumed liabilities of the Upjohn Business in connection with the Combination. The illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit versions of our products or of diverted or stolen products could have a negative impact on our reputation and our business. The pharmaceutical drug supply has been increasingly challenged by the vulnerability of distribution channels to illegal counterfeiting and the presence of counterfeit products in a growing number of markets and over the internet. Third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit versions of our products that do not meet our rigorous manufacturing and testing standards. Counterfeit products are frequently unsafe or ineffective and can be potentially life-threatening. Counterfeit medicines may contain harmful substances, the wrong dose of API or no API at all. However, to distributors and users, counterfeit products may be visually indistinguishable from the authentic version. Reports of adverse reactions to counterfeit drugs or increased levels of counterfeiting could materially affect patient confidence in the authentic product. It is possible that adverse events caused by unsafe counterfeit products will mistakenly be attributed to the authentic product. In addition, unauthorized diversions of products or thefts of inventory at warehouses, plants, or while in-transit could result in improper storage or compromise product integrity and therefore adversely impact patient safety, our reputation, and our business. Loss of sales or revenues, as well as public loss of confidence in the integrity of pharmaceutical products as a result of counterfeiting, diversion, or theft could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. We face vigorous competition that threatens the commercial acceptance and pricing of our products . The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. We face competition from other pharmaceutical manufacturers globally, some of whom are significantly larger than we are and have stronger, more well-established reputations than us. Our competitors may be able to develop products and processes competitive with or superior to our own for many reasons, including but not limited to the possibility that they may have: • proprietary processes or delivery systems; • larger or more productive R&D and marketing staff; • larger or more efficient production capabilities in a particular therapeutic area; • more experience in preclinical testing and human clinical trials; • more products; • more experience in developing new drugs; or • greater financial resources. We also face increasing competition from lower-cost generic products and other branded products. Certain of our products are not protected by patent rights or have limited patent life and will soon lose patent protection. Loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly with the launch of generic products. As a result, sales of many of these products may decline or stop growing over time, and may decline faster than has been projected. For example, the compound patent for Celebrex in Japan expired in November 2019, and generics entered the market in June 2020. In June 2019, Lyrica’s pediatric exclusivity in the United States expired, and multi-source generic competition commenced in the United States in July 2019. Additionally, over the next several years, some products may lose market exclusivity upon entry of generic products prior to patent exclusivity. For example, several companies launched a generic to Lyrica in Japan in December 2020 despite pending patent infringement litigation. The litigation remains ongoing and the patents expire in July 2022. We may not be successful in managing competition from non-branded generics or other alternatives, or in generally managing revenues after loss of exclusivity, and our business may be materially adversely affected. Generic competitors are also becoming more aggressive in terms of pricing in many of the regions in which Viatris operates. In China, for example, we face strong competition from certain generic manufacturers, which may result in price cuts and volume loss on some of Viatris’ branded products. We also face competition in the United States, the EU and other mature markets that have a robust generics market and favorable regulatory conditions for generics. In addition, legislative proposals emerge from time to time in various jurisdictions to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. Any such proposal that is enacted into law could increase competition and worsen this negative effect on our branded sales. 26 In addition, certain of our products also face potential competition from products that may be developed in the future that could render our products uncompetitive or obsolete. For example, companies may develop medicines that treat the same indications targeted by our products, and these medicines could be more effective than our products or patients and physicians could prefer these medicines over our medicines. The introduction of these new competing products could also have a negative impact on product sales. Other related factors that could affect our business include: • Competitors’ products may also be safer, more effective, more effectively marketed or sold, or have lower prices or better performance features than ours; • PBMs and other pharmaceutical manufacturers may utilize contracting strategies that could decrease generic utilization of or otherwise negatively impact our products; • Vertical integration of pharmacies and large purchasing organizations or consolidation among distribution outlets; and • Our sales may suffer as a result of changes in consumer demand for our products, including those related to fluctuations in consumer buying patterns tied to seasonality, willingness of customers to switch among products of different pharmaceutical manufacturers, importation by consumers or the introduction of new products by competitors. The occurrence of any of the above risks could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. A relatively small group of products may represent a significant portion of our revenues, net sales, gross profit, or net earnings from time to time. Sales of a limited number of our products from time to time represent a significant portion of our revenues, net sales, gross profit, and net earnings. For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, Viatris’ top ten products in terms of sales, in the aggregate, represented approximately 23% and 23%, respectively, of the Company’s net sales. In the future, we expect that the mix of our top products will change and the concentration of sales for those top products will increase as a result of the Combination. If the volume or pricing of our largest selling products declines in the future, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or share price could be materially adversely affected. Operational Risks Public health outbreaks, epidemics and pandemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic, have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or stock price and may impact our ability to pay dividends. Public health outbreaks, epidemics and pandemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic, have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business. We continue to closely monitor the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on all aspects of our business, including its impact on our workforce, suppliers, vendors, business partners, distribution channels, customers and patients. As the rate of infection remains high in many countries, including the U.S., attempts continue to be made to reduce the spread of COVID-19, including quarantines, vaccination programs, government restrictions on movement, business closures and suspensions, canceled events and activities, self-isolation, and other voluntary and/or mandated changes in behavior. Both the outbreak of the disease and actions to slow its spread have created significant uncertainty, economic volatility and disruption, and increased unemployment, which have impacted and may continue to impact our business operations and have materially adversely affected and may continue to materially adversely affect our workforce and business operations as well as our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or stock price and may impact our ability to pay dividends. While our business operations are currently considered essential based on current government guidelines throughout the world due to the important role pharmaceutical manufacturers play within the global healthcare system, many of our administrative offices have been operating under work from home protocols, which are expected to continue at least through mid-2021. In addition, certain programs or incentives implemented to ensure employee health and safety, such as subsidized testing, hazard pay, sick leave and bonus payments, have increased our operating costs. Extended changes in work conditions, including work from home protocols, could strain our business continuity plans, reduce productivity and morale, or introduce operational risk, including but not limited to increased cybersecurity risk. For example, remote working environments may be less secure and more susceptible to hacking attacks, including phishing and social engineering attempts and malware attacks that seek to exploit the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, we have taken extra precautions at our manufacturing facilities to aid in the protection of on-site personnel and operations, including the implementation of social distancing guidelines, daily health assessments of on-site 27 personnel and split shifts where feasible. If we experience an increase in reported illnesses or quarantining at any of our facilities, including critical manufacturing sites, it is possible that such facilities may need to close for an extended period of time, which could negatively affect our ability to produce, ship, and supply products to our customers and would impact our business and financial results. In addition, customer-facing field operations have moved to a remote engagement model and global restrictions have been placed on travel and in-person meetings. A remote engagement model may not be as successful as in-person meetings and could result in lower sales of products, particularly new products. We have also taken steps to protect the safety of study participants, employees and staff at clinical trial sites while continuing to ensure regulatory compliance and scientific integrity of trial data. COVID-19 and related responsive measures have also made, and may continue to make, it difficult for us, our partners or suppliers to source and manufacture products in, and to export our products from, certain affected areas. In addition, we have faced, and may continue to face, delays or difficulty sourcing certain products or raw materials, including APIs. Even if we are able to find alternate sources for such products or raw materials, they may cost more. In addition, we have experienced and may continue to experience increased shipping and freight costs, as well as delays in shipping. These factors have materially adversely affected and could continue to materially adversely affect our ability to produce, ship, and supply products, which could negatively impact our customer relationships, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price, or result in negative publicity and reputational harm. Lower retail pharmacy demand, as well as some patients, doctors and hospitals delaying or foregoing routine doctor and hospital visits and elective medical procedures, has led and could continue to lead to decreased demand for certain of our products, which has negatively impacted our sales, results of operations and financial results. At the same time, we have experienced, and could continue to experience, unpredictable increases in demand for certain of our products, which could exceed our capacity to meet such demand and negatively impact our customer relationships, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. Health regulatory agencies globally may also experience disruptions in their operations and greater regulatory uncertainty as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. For instance, the FDA has announced its intention to temporarily postpone certain inspections of domestic and foreign manufacturing facilities. The FDA and comparable foreign regulatory agencies may have slower response times or reduced resources and, as a result, review of regulatory submissions, inspections, approval of new products and other timelines important to our business may be materially impacted, which could delay our new product launches and have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our continued access to external sources of liquidity depends on multiple factors, including the condition of debt capital markets, our operating performance, and maintaining strong credit ratings. Also, the continuing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic could lead to our customers or suppliers having liquidity problems that could negatively impact our ability to collect cash on our receivables and/or negatively impact our ability to get inventory and materials. If the impacts of the pandemic create further disruptions or turmoil in the financial markets or customer or supplier liquidity issues, or if rating agencies lower our credit ratings, it could adversely affect our ability to access the debt markets, our cost of funds, and other terms for new debt, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial position. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to impact us depends on numerous evolving factors and future developments that we are not currently able to predict and may also exacerbate other risks discussed in these risk factors, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. Current and changing economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business, partners and suppliers. The global economy continues to experience significant volatility, and the economic environment may become less favorable. Economic volatility, governmental financial restructuring efforts and evolving deficit and spending reduction programs could negatively impact the global economy and the pharmaceutical industry. This has led, or could lead, to reduced consumer and customer spending, reduced or eliminated governmental or third-party payor coverage or reimbursement or reduced spending on healthcare, including but not limited to pharmaceutical products. While generic drugs present an alternative to higher-priced branded products, our sales could be negatively impacted if patients forego obtaining healthcare, patients and customers reduce spending or purchases, or if governments or third-party payors reduce or eliminate coverage or reimbursement amounts for pharmaceuticals or impose price or other controls adversely impacting the price or availability of pharmaceuticals (whether for generics, branded products or both). In addition, reduced consumer and customer spending, reduced government or third-party payor coverage or reimbursement, or new government controls, may drive us and our competitors to decrease prices, may reduce the ability of customers to pay, or may result in reduced demand for our products. 28 The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our industry, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. Failure to comply with applicable environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations worldwide could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. We are subject globally to various laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the environment, climate change, water, chemicals and employee safety. These requirements include regulation of the handling, manufacture, transportation, storage, use and disposal of materials and wastes, including the discharge of regulated materials and emissions into the environment. We are also subject to related permitting, record-keeping, reporting and registration requirements. In the normal course of our business, we are exposed to risks relating to possible releases of hazardous substances into the environment, which could cause environmental or property damage or personal injuries, and which could result in (i) our noncompliance with such environmental and occupational health and safety laws, regulations and permits and (ii) regulatory enforcement actions or claims for personal injury and property damage against us. If environmental discharge occurs, or if we discover contamination caused by prior operations, including by prior owners and operators of properties we acquire or lease, we could be liable for cleanup or remediation obligations, damages and fines or have relevant permits, authorizations or registrations modified or revoked. In addition, any non-compliance with environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations and permits, or emissions into the environment, whether actual or perceived, may result in significant reputational damage. The substantial unexpected costs we may incur could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. Environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations are also complex and subject to change, and our related capital expenditures and costs for compliance may increase substantially in the future as a result of such changes, the development and manufacturing of a new product or increased development or manufacturing activities at any of our facilities. We may be required to expend significant funds and our manufacturing activities could be delayed or suspended or we may lose the ability to purchase or use certain materials, or face restrictions on the amounts of materials we may use or purchase, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. The pharmaceutical industry is heavily regulated, and we face significant costs and uncertainties associated with our efforts to comply with applicable laws and regulations. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by various governmental authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including the U.S., EU, China and India. For instance, we must comply with applicable laws and requirements of the FDA and other regulatory agencies, including foreign authorities, with respect to the research, development, manufacture, quality, safety, effectiveness, approval, labeling, tracking, tracing, authentication, storage, record-keeping, reporting, pharmacovigilance, sale, distribution, import, export, marketing, advertising, and promotion of pharmaceutical products. We are committed to conducting our business, including the sale and marketing of our products, in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. These laws and regulations, however, are numerous and complex and it is possible that a governmental authority may challenge our activities, or that an employee or agent could violate these laws and regulations without our knowledge. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in a range of consequences, including, but not limited to, fines, penalties, disgorgement, exclusion from U.S. federal healthcare reimbursement programs, unanticipated compliance expenditures, suspension of review of applications or other submissions, rejection or delay in approval of applications, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, our inability to sell products, the return by customers of our products, injunctions, and/or criminal prosecution. Under certain circumstances, a regulator may also have the authority to revoke or vary previously granted drug approvals. The safety profile of any product will continue to be closely monitored by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities after approval. If such regulatory authorities become aware of new safety information about any of our marketed or investigational products, those authorities may require further inspections, enhancements to manufacturing controls, labeling changes, establishment of a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy or similar strategy, restrictions on a product’s indicated uses or marketing, or post-approval studies or post-market surveillance. In addition, we are subject to regulations in various jurisdictions, including the Federal Drug Supply Chain Security Act in the U.S., the Falsified Medicines Directive in the EU and several other such regulations in other countries that require us to develop electronic systems to serialize, track, trace and authenticate units of our products through the supply chain and distribution system. Compliance with these regulations has in the past and may in the future result in increased expenses for us or impose greater administrative burdens on our organization, and failure to meet these requirements could result in fines or other penalties. In recent years, the regulatory framework in China regarding the pharmaceutical industry has undergone significant changes and Chinese authorities have become increasingly vigilant in enforcing laws in the pharmaceutical industry. We believe that Viatris’ strategies regarding pharmaceutical research, development, manufacturing and commercialization in China 29 are currently aligned with the Chinese government’s policies, but they may in the future diverge, requiring a change in such strategies. Any such change may result in increased compliance costs to us or cause delays in or prevent the successful research, development, manufacturing or commercialization of our products in China, result in the loss of required licenses and permits or the suspension or termination of Viatris’ activities in China. The FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities also regulate the facilities and operational procedures that we use to manufacture our products. We must register our facilities with the FDA and similar regulators in other countries. Products must be manufactured in our facilities in accordance with cGMP or similar standards in each territory in which we manufacture. Compliance with such regulations and with our own quality standards requires substantial expenditures of time, money, and effort in multiple areas, including training of personnel, record-keeping, production, and quality control and quality assurance. The FDA and other comparable regulatory authorities, including foreign authorities, periodically inspect our manufacturing facilities for compliance with cGMP or similar standards in the applicable territory. Regulatory approval to manufacture a drug is granted on a site-specific basis. Failure to comply with cGMP and other regulatory standards at one of our or our partners’ or suppliers’ manufacturing facilities could result in an adverse action brought by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, which could result in the receipt of an untitled or warning letter, fines, penalties, disgorgement, unanticipated compliance expenditures, rejection or delay in approval of applications, suspension of review of applications or other submissions, suspension of ongoing clinical trials, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, our inability to sell products, the return by customers of our products, orders to suspend, vary, or withdraw marketing authorizations, injunctions, consent decrees, requirements to modify promotional materials or issue corrective information to healthcare practitioners, refusal to permit import or export, criminal prosecution and/or other adverse actions. Our business could be adversely affected if any regulatory body were to delay, withhold, or withdraw approval of an application; require a recall or other adverse product action; require one of our manufacturing facilities to cease or limit production; or suspend, vary, or withdraw related marketing authorization. Delay and cost in obtaining FDA or other regulatory approval to manufacture at a different facility also could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we have established internal quality and regulatory compliance programs and policies, there is no guarantee that these programs and policies, as currently designed, will meet regulatory agency standards in the future or will prevent instances of non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Additionally, despite our compliance efforts, from time to time we or our partners receive notices of manufacturing and quality-related observations following inspections by regulatory authorities around the world, as well as official agency correspondence regarding compliance. For example, the FDA has issued warning letters relating to valsartan API and nitrosamine impurities to our API manufacturers Mylan Laboratories Limited Unit 8 and Mylan Laboratories Limited Unit 7. We have provided thorough responses to the FDA regarding the issues identified and remediation is ongoing. In addition, in November 2018, the FDA issued a warning letter with respect to our manufacturing plant in Morgantown, West Virginia. We implemented comprehensive restructuring and remediation activities at our Morgantown plant and on May 11, 2020, we received a closeout letter from the FDA. However, we or our partners may receive similar observations and correspondence in the future. If we are unable to resolve these observations and address regulatory concerns in a timely fashion, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price could be materially affected. We utilize controlled substances in certain of our current products and products in development, and therefore must meet the requirements of the Controlled Substances Act of 1970 and the related regulations administered by the DEA in the U.S., as well as those of similar laws in other countries where we operate. These laws relate to the manufacture, shipment, storage, sale, and use of controlled substances. The DEA and other regulatory agencies limit the availability of the controlled substances used in certain of our current products and products in development and, as a result, our procurement quota of these active ingredients may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand or complete clinical trials. We must annually apply to the DEA and similar regulatory agencies for procurement quotas in order to obtain these substances. Any delay or refusal by the DEA or such similar agencies in establishing our procurement quota for controlled substances could delay or stop our clinical trials or product launches, or could cause trade inventory disruptions for those products that have already been launched. In addition, some states have passed laws and regulations imposing assessments on the sale or distribution of certain controlled substances, and other states are considering and may implement similar laws and regulations in the future. The occurrence of any of the above risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. The use of legal, regulatory, and legislative strategies by both brand and generic competitors, including but not limited to “authorized generics” and regulatory petitions, may increase costs associated with the introduction or marketing of our generic products, could delay or prevent such introduction, and could significantly reduce our revenue and profit . Our competitors, both branded and generic, often pursue strategies to prevent or delay generic alternatives to branded products. These strategies include, but are not limited to: 30 • entering into agreements whereby other generic companies will begin to market an authorized generic, which is the approved brand-name drug without the brand-name on its label, at the same time or after generic competition initially enters the market; • launching their own authorized generic product prior to or at the same time or after generic competition initially enters the market; • pricing a branded product at a discount equivalent to generic pricing, as was the case for Copaxone after the launch of Mylan’s generic glatiramer acetate products; • filing frivolous petitions with the FDA or other regulatory bodies seeking to prevent or delay approvals, including timing the filings so as to thwart generic competition by causing delays of our product approvals; • contracting strategies among pharmaceutical manufacturers and PBMs that could decrease generic or biosimilar utilization and negatively impact our product launches; • seeking to establish regulatory and legal obstacles that would make it more difficult to demonstrate bioequivalence or to meet other requirements for approval, and/or to prevent regulatory agency review of applications; • initiating legislative or other efforts to limit the substitution of generic versions of brand pharmaceuticals; • filing suits for patent infringement and other claims that may delay or prevent regulatory approval, manufacture, and/or sale of generic products; • introducing “next-generation” products prior to the expiration of market exclusivity for the reference product, which often materially reduces the demand for the generic or the reference product for which we seek regulatory approval; • persuading regulatory bodies to withdraw the approval of brand-name drugs for which the patents are about to expire and converting the market to another product of the brand company on which longer patent protection exists; • obtaining extensions of market exclusivity by conducting clinical trials of brand drugs in pediatric populations or by other methods; and • seeking to obtain new patents on drugs for which patent protection is about to expire. In the U.S., some companies have lobbied Congress for amendments to Hatch-Waxman Act that would give them additional advantages over generic competitors. For example, although the term of a company’s drug patent can be extended to reflect a portion of the time an NDA (which is filed in the U.S. with the FDA when approval is sought to market a newly developed branded product and, in certain instances, for a new dosage form, a new delivery system or a new indication for a previously approved drug) is under regulatory review, some companies have proposed extending the patent term by a full year for each year spent in clinical trials rather than the one-half year that is currently permitted. If proposals like these in the U.S., EU, or in other countries where we or our partners and suppliers operate were to become effective, or if any other actions by our competitors and other third parties to prevent or delay activities necessary to the approval, manufacture, or distribution of our products are successful, our entry into the market and our ability to generate revenues associated with new products may be delayed, reduced, or eliminated, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. If we are unable to successfully introduce new products in a timely manner, our future revenue and profitability may be adversely affected. Our future revenues and profitability will depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully and timely develop, license, or otherwise acquire and commercialize new products. Product development is inherently risky, especially for new drugs for which safety and efficacy have not been established and/or the market is not yet proven as well as for complex generic drugs and biosimilars. Likewise, product licensing involves inherent risks, including, among others, uncertainties due to matters that may affect the achievement of milestones, as well as the possibility of contractual disagreements with regard to whether the supply of product meets certain specifications or terms such as license scope or termination rights. As Viatris focuses more in complex products, the development and commercialization process requires substantial time, effort and financial resources. We, or a partner, may not be successful in commercializing such products on a timely basis, or at all, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. Before any prescription drug product, including generic drug products, can be marketed, marketing authorization approval is required by the relevant regulatory authorities and/or national regulatory agencies (for example, the FDA in the U.S., the EMA in the EU and other regulatory authorities). The process of obtaining regulatory approval to manufacture and market new branded and generic pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time consuming, costly, and inherently unpredictable. In addition, these regulatory agencies may be delayed in reviewing and approving products as a result of lapsed or insufficient funding, insufficient staffing, travel or work restrictions (including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic), or other factors beyond our control. Any delay in regulatory approval could impact the commercial or financial success of a product. 31 Outside the U.S., the approval process may be more or less rigorous, depending on the country, and the time required for approval may be longer or shorter than that required in the U.S. Bioequivalence, clinical, or other studies conducted in one country may not be accepted in other countries, the requirements for approval may differ among countries, and the approval of a pharmaceutical product in one country does not necessarily mean that the product will be approved in another country. We, or a partner or supplier, may be unable to obtain requisite approvals on a timely basis, or at all, for new products that we may develop, license or otherwise acquire. Moreover, if we obtain regulatory approval for a drug, it may be limited, for example, with respect to the indicated uses and delivery methods for which the drug may be marketed, or may include warnings, precautions or contraindications in the labeling, which could restrict our potential market for the drug. A regulatory approval may also include post-approval study or risk management requirements that may substantially increase the resources required to market the drug. Also, for products pending approval, we may obtain raw materials or produce batches of inventory to be used in efficacy and bioequivalence testing, as well as in anticipation of the product’s launch. In the event that regulatory approval is denied or delayed, we could be exposed to the risk of this inventory becoming obsolete. The approval process for generic pharmaceutical products often results in the relevant regulatory agency granting final approval to a number of generic pharmaceutical products at the time a patent claim for a corresponding branded product or other market exclusivity expires. This often forces us to face immediate competition when we introduce a generic product into the market. Additionally, further generic approvals often continue to be granted for a given product subsequent to the initial launch of the generic product. These circumstances generally result in significantly lower prices, as well as reduced margins, for generic products compared to branded products. New generic market entrants generally cause continued price, margin, and sales erosion over the generic product life cycle. In the U.S., the Hatch-Waxman Act provides for a period of 180 days of generic marketing exclusivity for a “first applicant,” that is the first submitted ANDA (which is filed in the U.S. with the FDA when approval is sought to market a generic equivalent of a drug product previously approved under an NDA and listed in the FDA publication entitled Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations, popularly known as the “Orange Book” or for a new dosage strength for a drug previously approved under an ANDA) containing a certification of invalidity, non-infringement or unenforceability related to a patent listed with the ANDA’s reference drug product, commonly referred to as a Paragraph IV certification. During this exclusivity period, which under certain circumstances may be shared with other ANDAs filed on the same day, the FDA cannot grant final approval to later-submitted ANDAs for the same generic equivalent. If an ANDA is awarded 180-day exclusivity, the applicant generally enjoys higher market share, net revenues, and gross margin for that generic product. However, our ability to obtain 180 days of generic marketing exclusivity may be dependent upon our ability to obtain FDA approval or tentative approval within an applicable time period of the FDA’s acceptance of our ANDA. If we are unable to obtain approval or tentative approval within that time period, we may risk forfeiture of such marketing exclusivity. By contrast, if we are not a “first applicant” to challenge a listed patent for such a product, we may lose significant advantages to a competitor with 180-day exclusivity, even if we obtain FDA approval for our generic drug product. The same would be true in situations where we are required to share our exclusivity period with other ANDA sponsors with Paragraph IV certifications. In the EU and other countries and regions, there is no exclusivity period for the first generic product. The Commission or national regulatory agencies may grant marketing authorizations to any number of generics. If we are unable to navigate our products through the approval process in a timely manner, there could be an adverse effect on our product introduction plans, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. We expend a significant amount of resources on R&D efforts that may not lead to successful product introductions. Much of our development effort is focused on technically difficult-to-formulate products and/or products that require advanced manufacturing technology, including our biosimilars program and respiratory platform. We conduct R&D primarily to enable us to gain approval for, manufacture, and market pharmaceuticals in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. We also partner with third parties to develop products. Typically, research expenses related to the development of innovative or complex compounds and the filing of marketing authorization applications for innovative and complex compounds (such as NDAs and biosimilar applications in the U.S.) are significantly greater than those expenses associated with the development of and filing of marketing authorization applications for most generic products (such as ANDAs in the U.S. and abridged applications in Europe). As we and our partners continue to develop new and/or complex products, our research expenses will likely increase. Because of the inherent risk associated with R&D efforts in our industry, including the high cost and uncertainty of conducting clinical trials (where required) particularly with respect to new and/or complex drugs, our, or a partner’s, R&D expenditures may not result in the successful introduction of new pharmaceutical products approved by the relevant regulatory bodies. Also, after we submit a marketing authorization application for a new compound or generic product, the relevant regulatory authority may change standards and/or request that we conduct additional studies or evaluations and, as a result, we may incur approval delays as well as R&D costs in excess of what we anticipated. 32 Clinical testing is expensive and can take many years to complete, and its outcome is inherently uncertain. Failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process. We or our partners may experience delays in our ongoing or future clinical trials, and we do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin or enroll subjects on time, need to be redesigned, or be completed on schedule, if at all. Clinical trials may be delayed, suspended or prematurely terminated for a variety of reasons. If we experience delays in the completion of, or the termination of, any clinical trial of our product candidates, the commercial prospects of our product candidates will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues from any of these product candidates will be delayed. In addition, any delays in completing our clinical trials will increase our costs, slow down our product candidate development and approval process, and jeopardize our ability to commence product sales and generate revenues. Any of these occurrences may harm our business, financial condition and prospects significantly. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of our product candidates. Finally, we cannot be certain that any investment made in developing products will be recovered, even if we are successful in commercialization. To the extent that we expend significant resources on R&D efforts and are not able, ultimately, to introduce successful new and/or complex products as a result of those efforts, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. Even if our products in development receive regulatory approval, such products may not achieve expected levels of market acceptance . Even if we are able to obtain regulatory approvals for our new products, the success of those products is dependent upon market acceptance. Levels of market acceptance for our products could be impacted by several factors, including but not limited to: • the availability, perceived advantages, and relative safety and efficacy of alternative products from our competitors; • the degree to which the approved labeling supports promotional initiatives for commercial success; • the prices of our products relative to those of our competitors; • the timing of our market entry; • the effectiveness of our marketing, sales, and distribution strategy and operations; and • other competitor actions, including legal actions. Additionally, studies of the proper utilization, safety, and efficacy of pharmaceutical products are being conducted by the industry, government agencies, and others. Such studies, which increasingly employ sophisticated methods and techniques, can call into question the utilization, safety, and efficacy of previously marketed as well as future products. In some cases, such studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuation or variation of product marketing authorizations or requirements for risk management programs, such as a patient registry. Any of these events could adversely affect our profitability, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. The development, approval process, manufacture and commercialization of biosimilar products involve unique challenges and uncertainties, and our failure to successfully introduce biosimilar products could have a negative impact on our business and future operating results. We and our partners and suppliers are actively working to develop and commercialize biosimilar products. Although the BPCIA established a framework for the review and approval of biosimilar products and the FDA has begun to review and approve biosimilar product applications, there continues to be significant uncertainty regarding the regulatory pathway in the U.S., with the FDA continuing to issue and revise guidance related to its interpretation and implementation of the BPCIA. There is also uncertainty regarding the pathway to obtain approval for biosimilar products in other countries as well as uncertainty regarding the commercial pathway to successfully market and sell such products. Moreover, biosimilar products generally involve extensive patent clearances and often involve patent infringement litigation related to multiple patents, which could delay or prevent the commercial launch of a biosimilar product for many years. If we are unable to obtain FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authority approval for our products, we will be unable to market them. In addition, the development and manufacture of biosimilars pose unique challenges related to the supply of the materials needed to manufacture biosimilars. Access to and the supply of necessary biological materials may be limited, and government regulations restrict access to and regulate the transport and use of such materials. Even if our biosimilar products are approved for marketing, the products may not be commercially successful, may require more time than expected to achieve market acceptance, and may not generate profits in amounts that are sufficient to 33 offset the amount invested to obtain such approvals. Market success of biosimilar products will depend on demonstrating to regulators, patients, physicians and payors (such as insurance companies) that such products are safe and effective yet offer a more competitive price or other benefit over existing therapies. In addition, manufacturers of biologic products may try to dissuade physicians from prescribing or accepting biosimilar products. We may not be able to generate future sales of biosimilar products in certain jurisdictions and may not realize the anticipated benefits of our investments in the development, manufacture and sale of such products. If our development efforts do not result in the development and timely approval of biosimilar products or if such products, once developed and approved, are not commercially successful, or upon the occurrence of any of the above risks, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price could be materially adversely affected. Our business is highly dependent upon market perceptions of us, our products and brands, and the safety and quality of our products and brands, as well as the effectiveness of our sales and marketing activities, and we may be adversely impacted by negative publicity or findings. Market perceptions of us are very important to our business, especially market perceptions of our company, products, brands and the safety and quality of our products and brands. If we, our partners and suppliers, or our products or brands suffer from negative publicity, are subject to market withdrawal or recall or are proven to be, or are claimed to be, ineffective or harmful to consumers, then this could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business. In addition, Viatris believes that maintaining and enhancing certain of its brands is important and often provides certain competitive advantages. Viatris’ sales and marketing efforts are anchored by promoting its products to physicians, pharmacists, clinics and hospitals. Therefore, Viatris’ sales and marketing force, whether in-house sales representatives or third-party commercial partners, must possess a relatively high level of technical knowledge, up-to-date understanding of industry trends and expertise in the relevant therapeutic areas and products, as well as promotion and communication skills. Marketing, advertising and promotions may be expensive and may not achieve their intended benefits. If Viatris is unable to effectively train its in-house sales representatives and third-party commercial partners or monitor and evaluate their marketing performances, our sales and marketing may be less successful than desired. In addition, fewer in-person sales and marketing efforts as a result of restrictions put in place in order to contain the COVID-19 pandemic, or other similar limitations, may result in less successful sales and marketing activities. Given our dependence on market perception and sales and marketing efforts, negative publicity associated with product or brand quality, patient illness, or other adverse effects resulting from, or perceived to be resulting from, our products or brands, or our partners’ and suppliers’ manufacturing facilities, or an inability to increase or maintain the effectiveness and efficiency of our sales and marketing activities could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales to a limited number of customers. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales to a limited number of customers. If we were to experience a significant reduction in or loss of business with one or more such customers, or if one or more such customers were to experience difficulty in paying us on a timely basis, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price could be materially adversely affected. In addition, a significant amount of our sales are to a relatively small number of drug wholesalers and retail drug chains. These customers represent an essential part of the distribution chain of generic pharmaceutical products. Drug wholesalers and retail drug chains have undergone, and are continuing to undergo, significant consolidation. This consolidation has resulted in these groups gaining additional purchasing leverage and, consequently, increasing the product pricing pressures facing our business. We expect this trend of increased pricing pressures to continue. Additionally, the emergence of large buying groups representing independent retail pharmacies and the prevalence and influence of managed care organizations and similar institutions increases the negotiating power of these groups, enabling them to attempt to extract price discounts, rebates, and other restrictive pricing terms on our products. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. We have a limited number of manufacturing facilities and certain third-party suppliers produce a substantial portion of our API and products, some of which require a highly exacting and complex manufacturing process. A substantial portion of our capacity, as well as our current production, is attributable to a limited number of manufacturing facilities and certain third-party suppliers. A significant disruption at any one of such facilities within our internal or third-party supply chain, even on a short-term basis, whether due to the failure of a third-party supplier to fulfill the terms of their agreement with us, labor disruption, adverse quality or compliance observation, other regulatory action, infringement of brand or other third-party intellectual property rights, natural disaster, civil or political unrest, export or import 34 restrictions, or other events could impair our ability to produce and ship products to the market on a timely basis and could, among other consequences, subject us to exposure to claims from customers. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. The adverse effects of any of these events could be exacerbated as a result of our previously announced global restructuring program, which we expect will involve closing, downsizing or divesting up to 15 manufacturing facilities globally. If we or our third-party suppliers’ face significant manufacturing issues, this could lead to shutdowns, delays or product shortages, or to our being entirely unable to supply certain products to customers for an extended period of time. In addition, our facilities may be required to close for periods of time, be required to staff at reduced capacity, or suffer other manufacturing delays as the result of an outbreak of disease, epidemic or pandemic, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, in or near any of our facilities. Such shortages, delays or shutdowns have led and could continue to lead to significant losses of sales revenue, third-party litigation, or negative publicity. See also “ The pharmaceutical industry is heavily regulated, and we face significant costs and uncertainties associated with our efforts to comply with applicable laws and regulations.” We purchase certain API and other materials and supplies that we use in our manufacturing operations, as well as certain finished products, from many different foreign and domestic suppliers. The price of API and other materials and supplies is subject to volatility, and in certain cases, we have listed only one supplier in our applications with regulatory agencies. There is no guarantee that we will always have timely, sufficient or affordable access to critical raw materials or finished product supplied by third parties, even when we have more than one supplier, which could lead to our or our partners’ and suppliers’ inability to supply sufficient quantities of our products to meet market demand. In addition, quality deficiencies in the products which we or our suppliers provide, or at our or their manufacturing facilities, have in the past and could in the future adversely impact our manufacturing and supply capabilities, cause supply interruptions, or lead to voluntary market withdrawals or product recalls. For example, the EU has implemented particularly stringent regulations with respect to manufacturing standards for API imported into Europe that place the certification requirement on the regulatory bodies of the exporting countries. An increase in the price, or an interruption in the supply, of a single-sourced or any other raw material, including the relevant API, or in the supply of finished product, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. In connection with the Combination, Viatris entered into certain manufacturing and supply agreements with Pfizer. Reliance on Pfizer under those agreements entails risks related to regulatory and quality assurance (including cGMP compliance), unforeseen disruption of the manufacture or supply or our products, the possible breach of the agreement by Pfizer, the possible misappropriation of our proprietary information or the possible termination of the agreements at a time that is costly or inconvenient to Viatris, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. See also “ Viatris could incur operational difficulties or losses if we are unable to obtain the same types and level of services and resources that historically had been provided to the legacy Upjohn Business by Pfizer, if Pfizer is unable to perform under the agreements entered into as part of the Combination or if we are required to make payments to Pfizer pursuant to indemnities agreed to as part of the Combination . In addition, the manufacture of some of our products is a highly exacting and complex process, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. Problems may arise during manufacturing at our or our third-party suppliers’ facilities for a variety of reasons, including, among others, equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials, natural disasters, power outages, labor or other civil unrest, cybersecurity issues and environmental factors. If problems arise during the production of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded. This could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage to customer relations, time and expense spent investigating the cause, and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other batches or products. If problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall and product liability costs may also be incurred. If we or one of our suppliers experience any of the problems described above, such problems could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. Our future success is highly dependent on our ability to attract, motivate and retain key personnel. It is important that we attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel in order to develop and commercialize new products, manage our business, and compete effectively. Competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical industry is intense. We may lose key personnel or may be unable to attract, retain and motivate qualified individuals, or the associated costs may increase. If we fail to attract, develop, incentivize and retain key scientific, technical, commercial, regulatory or management personnel, this could lead to loss of customers, business disruption, and a decline in revenues, adversely affect the progress of pipeline products, or otherwise adversely affect our operations. Additionally, while we work to ensure that we have effective plans in place for management succession, any anticipated or unanticipated management transition could create uncertainty, which could disrupt or result in changes to our strategy and have a negative impact on our business. Current or 35 prospective Viatris employees also may experience uncertainty about their future roles at the Company following the consummation and/or integration of recent acquisitions, including the Combination, our global restructuring program, or our other strategic initiatives or programs, which may adversely impact our ability to retain key personnel and other employees. If we are unsuccessful in retaining our key employees or enforcing certain post-employment contractual provisions such as confidentiality or non-competition provisions, it may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. Compliance Risks We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, Chinese anti-corruption laws and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws, which impose restrictions on certain conduct and may carry substantial fines and penalties. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, Chinese anti-corruption laws and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions. These laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from engaging in bribery or making other prohibited payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and some have record keeping requirements. The failure to comply with these laws could result in substantial criminal and/or monetary penalties. We operate in jurisdictions that have experienced corruption, bribery, pay-offs and other similar practices from time-to-time and, in certain circumstances, such practices may be local custom. We have implemented and trained relevant employees regarding internal control policies and procedures that mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. However, we cannot be certain that these policies and procedures will protect us against liability. There can be no assurance that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe criminal or civil penalties, reputational harm and other consequences that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. Our competitors, including branded pharmaceutical companies, and/or other third parties, may allege that we or our suppliers are infringing upon their intellectual property, including in an “at risk launch” situation, which could result in substantial monetary damages, impact our ability to launch a product and/or our ability to continue marketing a product, and/or force us to expend substantial resources in resulting litigation, the outcome of which is uncertain. Companies that produce branded pharmaceutical products and other patent holders routinely bring litigation against entities selling or seeking regulatory approval to manufacture and market generic forms of their branded products, as well as other entities involved in the manufacture, supply, and other aspects relating to API and finished pharmaceutical products. These companies and other patent holders may allege patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights as the basis for filing suit against an applicant for a generic product as well as others who may be involved in some aspect of research, supply, production, distribution, testing, packaging or other processes. Litigation often involves significant expense and can delay or prevent introduction or sale of our generic products. If patents are held valid and infringed by our products in a particular jurisdiction, we and/or our supplier(s) or partner(s) may, unless we or the supplier(s) or partner(s) could obtain a license from the patent holder, need to cease manufacturing and other activities, including but not limited to selling in that jurisdiction. We may also need to pay damages, surrender or withdraw the product, or destroy existing stock in that jurisdiction. There also may be situations, such as the decision to launch our insulin glargine and dimethyl fumarate products, where we use our business judgment and decide to market and sell products directly or through third parties, notwithstanding the fact that allegations of patent infringement(s) and other third-party rights have not been finally resolved by the courts (i.e., an “at-risk launch”). The risk involved in doing so can be substantial because the remedies available to the owner of a patent for infringement may include, among other things, a reasonable royalty on sales, damages measured by the profits lost by the patent holder, or by profits earned by the infringer. If there is a finding by a court of willful infringement, the definition of which is subjective, such damages may be increased by up to three times. Moreover, because of the discount pricing typically involved with bioequivalent products, patented branded products generally realize a substantially higher profit margin than generic or biosimilar products. An adverse decision in a case such as this, or a judicial order preventing us or our suppliers and partners from manufacturing, marketing, selling, and/or other activities necessary to the manufacture and distribution of our products, could result in substantial penalties, and/or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. We rely on the effectiveness of our patents, trademarks, confidentiality agreements and other measures to protect our intellectual property rights. Our ability to commercialize any branded product successfully will largely depend upon our or any partner’s or supplier’s ability to obtain, maintain and enforce patents and trademarks of sufficient scope to lawfully prevent third parties from developing and/or marketing infringing products. In the absence of adequate intellectual property protections or other barriers to entry, competitors may adversely affect our branded products business by independently developing and/or 36 marketing substantially equivalent products. It is also possible that we could incur substantial costs if we initiate litigation against others to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. We may file patent filings covering the API, formulation, methods of making, and/or methods of using for our branded products and branded product candidates. We may not be issued patents based on patent applications already filed or that we file in the future. Further, due to other factors that affect patentability, and if patents are issued, they may be insufficient in scope to protect our branded products from generic competition, as generics may be able to design around our patents. Patents are national in scope and therefore the issuance of a patent in one country does not ensure the issuance of a patent in any other country. Furthermore, the patent position of companies in the pharmaceutical industry generally involves complex legal and factual questions and has been and remains the subject of significant litigation. Legal standards relating to scope and validity of patent claims are evolving and may differ in various countries. Any patents we have obtained, or obtain in the future, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Moreover, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or any other governmental agency may commence or institute post-grant review, inter partes review, interference proceedings, or other challenges to our patents or patent applications. Although many of our products do not have patent protection, we continue to take steps to defend our patents for certain of our products. For example, many companies launched a generic to Lyrica in Japan in December 2020 despite pending patent litigation and the fact that these patents expire in July 2022. The patent litigation remains ongoing and we are taking legal steps to preserve the ability to exclusively provide to patients and physicians through patent expiry in July 2022. In addition, branded products often have market viability based upon the goodwill of the product name, which typically is the subject of a trademark registration or filing. Our branded products may therefore also be subject to risks related to the loss of a trademark or patent or to competition from generic or other branded products. Challenges can come from other businesses, individuals or governments, and governments could require compulsory licensing of our intellectual property. Any challenge to, or invalidation or circumvention of, our intellectual property (including patents or patent applications, copyrights and trademark protection) would be costly, would require significant time and attention of our management, and could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. We also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how, trade dress, regulatory exclusivity and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect, in part by confidentiality agreements with licensees, suppliers, employees and consultants. These measures may not provide adequate protection for our unpatented technology. If these agreements are breached, it is possible that we will not have adequate remedies. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability of confidentiality agreements. Furthermore, our trade secrets and proprietary technology may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors or we may not be able to maintain the confidentiality of information relating to such products. Our ability to enforce intellectual property rights also depends on the laws of individual countries, each country’s practices with respect to enforcement of intellectual property rights, and the extent to which certain countries may seek to engage in policies or practices that may weaken its intellectual property framework (e.g., a policy of routine compulsory licensing, or threat of compulsory licensing, of pharmaceutical intellectual property). If we are unable to adequately protect our technology, trade secrets or proprietary know-how, or enforce our intellectual property rights, this could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. Our reporting and payment obligations related to our participation in U.S. federal healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and the VA, are complex and often involve subjective decisions that could change as a result of new business circumstances, new regulations or agency guidance, or advice of legal counsel. Any failure to comply with those obligations could subject us to investigation, penalties, and sanctions. U.S. federal laws regarding reporting and payment obligations with respect to a pharmaceutical company’s participation in federal healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and the VA, are complex. Because our processes for calculating applicable government prices and the judgments involved in making these calculations involve subjective decisions and complex methodologies, these calculations are subject to risk of errors and differing interpretations. In addition, they are subject to review and challenge by the applicable governmental agencies, and it is possible that such reviews could result in changes that may have material adverse legal, regulatory, or economic consequences. Any governmental agencies or authorities that have commenced, or may commence, an investigation of us relating to the sales, marketing, pricing, quality, or manufacturing of pharmaceutical products could seek to impose, based on a claim of violation of anti-fraud and false claims laws or otherwise, civil and/or criminal sanctions, including fines, penalties, and possible exclusion from federal healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and/or the VA. Some of the applicable laws may impose liability even in the absence of specific intent to defraud. Furthermore, should there be ambiguity with regard to how to properly calculate and report payments—and even in the absence of any such ambiguity—a governmental authority may 37 take a position contrary to a position we have taken, and may impose or pursue civil and/or criminal sanctions. Governmental agencies may also make changes in program interpretations, requirements or conditions of participation, some of which may have implications for amounts previously estimated or paid. There can be no assurance that our submissions will not be found by CMS or the VA to be incomplete or incorrect. Any failure to comply with the above laws and regulations, and any such penalties or sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. We are involved in various legal proceedings and certain government inquiries and may experience unfavorable outcomes of such proceedings or inquiries. We are or may be involved in various legal proceedings and certain government inquiries or investigations, including, but not limited to, patent infringement, product liability, personal injury, securities fraud, claims with respect to the manufacture, sale marketing and distribution of opioid products, antitrust matters, breach of contract, and claims involving Medicare, Medicaid and/or VA reimbursements, or laws relating to sales, marketing, and pricing practices. These proceedings may involve claims for, or the possibility of, fines and penalties involving substantial amounts of money or other relief, including but not limited to civil or criminal fines and penalties and exclusion from participation in various government healthcare-related programs. Viatris is subject to investigations and extensive regulation by government agencies in the United States, China and other developed markets and emerging markets in which we operate. Criminal charges, substantial fines and/or civil penalties, limitations on Viatris’ ability to conduct business in applicable jurisdictions, as well as reputational harm and increased public interest in the matter could result from government investigations With respect to government enforcement of state and federal laws, including antitrust laws, as well as private plaintiff litigation of so-called “pay for delay” patent settlements, large verdicts, settlements or government fines are possible, especially in the U.S. and EU. Additionally, there is a possibility that the U.S. federal government, or state legislatures, could enact legislation to limit patent settlements between pharmaceutical companies and deem such patent agreements as anticompetitive. Such a change could impact our ability to launch generic products prior to the originator’s patent expiry. In connection with the Combination, the Company has generally assumed liability for, and control of, pending and threatened legal matters relating to the Upjohn Business and has agreed to indemnify Pfizer for liabilities arising out of such assumed legal matters. Pfizer, however, has agreed to retain various matters – including certain specified competition law matters – to the extent they arise from conduct during the pre-Distribution period and has agreed to indemnify the Company for liabilities arising out of such matters. If Pfizer were to dispute its retention of these matters, or if there is an adverse outcome in the matters that Pfizer has agreed to retain, this could have an adverse impact on Viatris. In addition, Viatris has agreed to pay Pfizer an amount equal to 57% of any losses actually incurred or suffered by Viatris, its predecessors or subsidiaries, since July 29, 2019, arising out of third-party actions relating to the manufacture, distribution, marketing, promotion or sale of opioids by or on behalf of Viatris, its predecessors or subsidiaries. If any of these legal proceedings or inquiries were to result in an adverse outcome, the impact could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. Emerging developments in the U.S. legal landscape relative to the liability of generic pharmaceutical manufacturers for certain product liabilities claims could increase our exposure to litigation costs and damages. Although we maintain a combination of self-insurance and commercial insurance, no reasonable amount of insurance can fully protect against all risks because of the potential liability inherent in the business of producing pharmaceuticals for human consumption. To the extent that a loss occurs, depending on the nature of the loss and the level of insurance coverage maintained, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. In addition, in limited circumstances, entities that we have acquired are party to litigation in matters under which we are, or may be, entitled to indemnification by the previous owners. Even in the case of indemnification, there are risks inherent in such indemnities and, accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will receive the full benefits of such indemnification, or that we will not experience an adverse result in a matter that is not indemnified, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. Refer to Note 19 Litigation included in Part II, Item 8 in this Form 10-K for further discussion of certain proceedings and litigation matters. If we fail to comply with our corporate integrity agreement, we could be subject to substantial penalties and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. In August 2017, Mylan Inc. and Mylan Specialty L.P., then subsidiaries of Mylan and now subsidiaries of Viatris, entered into the CIA”) with the OIG-HHS. The CIA has a five-year term and requires, among other things, enhancements to our 38 compliance program, fulfillment of reporting and monitoring obligations, management certifications and resolutions from Mylan Inc.’s board, as well as that an independent review organization annually review various matters relating to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, among other things. If we fail to comply with the CIA, the OIG-HHS may impose substantial monetary penalties or exclude us from federal healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid or the VA, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are increasingly dependent on IT and our systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including cybersecurity and data leakage risks. Significant disruptions to our IT systems or breaches of information security could adversely affect our business. We are increasingly dependent on sophisticated IT systems and infrastructure to operate our business. We also have outsourced significant elements of our operations to third parties, including as part of our TSAs with Pfizer. Some of these third parties are outside the U.S., including significant elements of our IT infrastructure, and as a result we are managing many independent vendor relationships with third parties who may or could have access to our confidential information. The size and complexity of our IT systems, and those of our third-party vendors with whom we contract, make such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions. In addition, we and our vendors have experienced and expect to continue to experience phishing attempts, firewall and business email compromises and other third-party attacks on our or our vendors’ IT systems, networks and infrastructures. Such attacks are increasingly sophisticated and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise, including state and quasi-state actors, criminal groups, “hackers” and others. Any security breach or other disruption to our or our vendors’ IT infrastructure could also interfere with or disrupt our business operations, including our manufacturing, distribution, R&D, sales and/or marketing activities. In the ordinary course of business, we and our vendors collect, store and transmit large amounts of confidential information (including trade secrets or other intellectual property, proprietary business information and personal information), and it is critical that we do so in a secure manner to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. The size and complexity of our and our vendors’ systems and the large amounts of confidential information that is present on them also makes them potentially vulnerable to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees, partners or vendors, or from attacks by malicious third parties. Maintaining the security, confidentiality and integrity of this confidential information (including trade secrets or other intellectual property, proprietary business information and personal information) is important to our competitive business position. However, such information can be difficult to protect. While we have taken steps to protect such information, and to ensure that the third-party vendors’ on which we rely have taken adequate steps to protect such information, there can be no assurance that our or our vendors’ efforts will prevent service interruptions or security breaches in our systems or the unauthorized or inadvertent wrongful use or disclosure of confidential or material non-public information that could adversely affect our business operations or result in the loss, misappropriation, and/or unauthorized access, use or disclosure of, or the prevention of access to, confidential information. A breach of our or our vendors’ security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, unapproved dissemination, misappropriation or misuse of trade secrets, proprietary information, or other confidential information, whether as a result of theft, hacking, fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, or for any other cause, could enable others to produce competing products, use our proprietary technology or information, and/or adversely affect our business position. Further, any such interruption, security breach, or loss, misappropriation, and/or unauthorized access, use or disclosure of confidential information, including personal information regarding our patients and employees, could result in financial, legal, business, and reputational harm to us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. We are subject to data privacy and security laws and regulations in many different jurisdictions and countries where we do business, and our or our vendors’ inability to comply could result in fines, penalties, or reputational damage, and could impact the way we operate our business. We are subject to federal, state and international data privacy and security laws and regulations governing the collection, use, disclosure, transmission and protection of personal information, including health-related information. As the legislative and regulatory landscape for data privacy and security continues to evolve around the world, there has been an increasing focus on data privacy and security matters that may affect our business. In the U.S., HIPAA governs the use, disclosure, and security of protected health information by HIPAA covered entities and business associates. Several U.S. states have enacted, or proposed, data privacy laws and regulations governing the confidentiality, security, use and disclosure of personal information, which may impose greater restrictions than federal data privacy and security laws and regulations. For example, the state of California adopted the CCPA, which took effect on January 1, 2020, and California voters approved the California Privacy Rights Act in November 2020, which will be effective on January 1, 2023. These laws provide California consumers with increased privacy rights and protections with respect to their personal information, including, among others, the right to know what personal information is collected, used, shared, or sold 39 and a right to deletion of personal information held by businesses and businesses’ service providers. We may also be subject to other state data privacy and security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws, and federal and state consumer protection laws which impose requirements for the collection, use, disclosure, transmission and protection of personal information. Each of these laws are subject to varying interpretations by courts and regulatory or government agencies, creating complex compliance issues for us. If we, or the third-party vendors on which we rely, fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations we could be subject to fines, penalties or sanctions, including criminal penalties. Outside of the U.S., data protection laws, including China’s Cybersecurity Law, the EU’s GDPR, EU member states implementing regulations, and other jurisdictional data protection laws and regulations impose significant compliance obligations on our organization. The GDPR contains data protection requirements in the EU and imposes a framework of obligations and restrictions governing the collection, processing, and the transmission of personal data to jurisdictions outside of the EU. The GDPR affords individuals with a series of privacy rights related to the collection, processing, and transmission of their personal data. The GDPR imposes significant compliance obligations, including required processes and policies governing our collection, transmission, processing and use of individuals personal data. In addition, the GDPR includes significant penalties for non-compliance, with fines up to the higher of €20 million or 4% of total annual worldwide revenue. In general, GDPR, and other data protection laws and regulations, could require adaptation of our technologies or practices to satisfy local country data protection requirements and standards. Other countries in which we operate, including Australia, Canada, China, India, Japan, Russia and South Africa, have, or are developing, laws and regulations governing the collection, use, securing and transmission of personal information as well that may affect our business or require us to adapt our technologies or practices. Recently, Brazil enacted significant data privacy legislation, the Lei Geral de Protecaode Dados, which became effective in August 2020. Other countries, including India, Russia and Korea, are considering legislation implementing data protection requirements or requiring local storage and processing of data or similar requirements. These and similar initiatives could increase the cost of developing, implementing or maintaining our IT systems, require us to allocate more resources to compliance initiatives or increase our costs. In addition, a failure by us, or our third-party vendors, to comply with applicable data privacy and security laws may lead to government enforcement actions and private litigation, which could result in financial, legal, business, and reputational harm to us and could have a material adverse effect on the way we operate our business, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. Increasing scrutiny and evolving expectations from customers, regulators, investors, and other stakeholders with respect to our environmental, social and governance practices may impose additional costs on us or expose us to new or additional risks. Companies are facing increasing scrutiny from customers, regulators, investors, and other stakeholders related to their environmental, social and governance practices and disclosure. Investor advocacy groups, investment funds and influential investors are also increasingly focused on these practices, especially as they relate to the environment, climate change, health and safety, supply chain management, diversity, labor conditions and human rights, both in our own operations and in our supply chain. Failure to adapt to or comply with regulatory requirements or investor or stakeholder expectations and standards could negatively impact our reputation, ability to do business with certain partners, access to capital, and our stock price. In addition, a growing number of our customers, including certain government purchasers, have adopted, or may adopt, procurement policies that include social and environmental requirements, including, for example, requirements to conduct third party audits, or these customers may seek to include such provisions in their procurement contract terms and conditions. These social and environmental responsibility provisions and initiatives are subject to change, vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and certain elements may be difficult and/or cost prohibitive for us to comply with given the inherent complexity of our external supply chain and the global scope of our operations. In certain circumstances, in order to meet the requirements or standards of our customers, we may be obligated to modify our sourcing practices or make other operational choices which may require additional investments and increase our costs or result in inefficiencies. Alternatively, we may be ineligible to participate in bids or tenders in certain markets, which may result in lost sales and revenues. Any of the factors mentioned above, or the perception that we or our suppliers or contract manufacturers have not responded appropriately to the growing concern for such issues, regardless of whether we are legally required to do so, may damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. Finance Risks Viatris’ future dividend payments cannot be guaranteed. 40 Although Viatris intends to pay quarterly dividends to its stockholders commencing in 2021, there is no assurance that Viatris will declare and pay, or have the ability to declare and pay, any dividends on its common stock in the future. Whether dividends will be paid, and the amount and frequency of any such dividend payments, will depend upon a number of factors, including Viatris’ results of operation, cash flows, financial position, competitive or commercial developments, contractual or statutory restrictions and any other factors considered relevant by the Viatris Board. Such payments, and the amount and frequency thereof, are also subject to the other risks set forth in these risk factors. In addition, payment of a cash dividend will reduce the amount of cash available to the Company for other activities, including repayment of debt, investment in the business or other capital expenditures. If the intercompany terms of cross border arrangements that we have among our subsidiaries are determined to be inappropriate or ineffective, our tax liability may increase. We have potential tax exposures resulting from the varying application of statutes, regulations, and interpretations which include exposures on intercompany terms of cross-border arrangements among our subsidiaries (including intercompany loans, sales, and services agreements) in relation to various aspects of our business, including manufacturing, marketing, sales, and delivery functions. Although we believe our cross-border arrangements among our subsidiaries are based upon internationally accepted standards and applicable law, tax authorities in various jurisdictions may disagree with and subsequently challenge the amount of profits taxed in their country, which may result in increased tax liability, including accrued interest and penalties, which would cause our tax expense to increase and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. We may not be able to maintain competitive financial flexibility and our corporate tax rate which could adversely affect us and our shareholders. We believe that our structure and operations give us the ability to achieve competitive financial flexibility and a competitive worldwide effective corporate tax rate. We must make material assumptions underlying our expected tax rates, including regarding the effect of certain internal reorganization transactions, including various intercompany transactions. We cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be, however, because of, among other reasons, uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate, potential changes of laws and interpretations thereof, and the potential for tax audits or challenges. Our actual effective tax rate may vary from our expectation and that variance may be material. Furthermore, the tax laws of other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our effective tax rate. In addition, we have invested in a number of clean energy operations capable of producing refined coal that we believe qualify for tax credits under Section 45 of the Code. However, our clean energy investments may not yield the tax credits that we expect them to produce, whether as a result of a failure to satisfy the applicable conditions, changes in IRS rules or interpretation, or a decrease in demand for coal. Congress could also modify or repeal Section 45 of the Code and remove the tax credits retroactively. In the past we have impaired the value of certain of our clean energy investments and terminated others. The ability to claim tax credits under these provisions is set to expire in 2021 and may not be renewed. Any of the factors discussed above could materially increase our overall effective income tax rate and income tax expense and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities and changes in income tax laws and tax rulings may have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate and income tax expense. We are subject to income taxes in many jurisdictions. Significant analysis and judgment are required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are currently subject to tax audits and investigations in several jurisdictions, and may be subject to other audits and investigations in the future. The final determination of any tax audits or related litigation could be materially different from our income tax provisions and accruals. Additionally, changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our overall profitability, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the results of audits and the examination of previously filed tax returns by taxing authorities, and continuing assessments of our tax exposures could impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. Currency fluctuations and changes in exchange rates could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. 41 Although we report our financial results in U.S. Dollars, a significant portion of our revenues, indebtedness and other liabilities and our costs are denominated in non-U.S. currencies, including among others the Chinese Renminbi, Euro, Swedish Krona, Indian Rupee, Korean Won, Japanese Yen, Australian Dollar, Canadian Dollar, British Pound Sterling and Brazilian Real. Our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, have in the past been and may in the future be adversely affected by certain movements in currency exchange rates. Defaults or restructurings in other countries could have a similar adverse impact. In addition, there remains significant international pressure on the Chinese government to adopt a more flexible currency policy, including from the U.S. government, which designated China as a “currency manipulator” in August 2019 and subsequently removed such designation in January 2020, which could result in greater fluctuation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. From time to time, we may implement currency hedges intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. However, our hedging strategies may not be successful, and any of our unhedged foreign exchange exposures will continue to be subject to market fluctuations. In addition, Viatris also faces risks arising from currency devaluations and the imposition of cash repatriation restrictions and exchange controls. Currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. Cash repatriation restrictions and exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by its foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing restrictions or controls. For example, in China the conversion of currency in the “capital account” (e.g., capital items such as direct investments or loans) requires the approval of the State Administration for Foreign Exchange in China or its local branches which could materially and adversely affect the ability of our Chinese operating subsidiaries and affiliated companies to obtain foreign currencies through equity financing or for capital expenditures, therefore impeding our overall business operations. While we currently have no need, and do not intend, to repatriate or convert cash held in countries that have significant restrictions or controls in place, should we need to do so to fund our operations, we may be unable to repatriate or convert such cash, or be unable to do so without incurring substantial costs. The occurrence of any of the above risks could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. We have significant indebtedness, which could lead to adverse consequences or adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under such indebtedness, and any refinancing of this debt could be at significantly higher interest rates . Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including but not limited to: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments, dividend payments and other general corporate purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, challenges and opportunities, and changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and debt service requirements and other financing needs; • increasing our vulnerability to increases in interest rates in general because a substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates; • increasing our exposure to currency fluctuations, since a significant portion of our indebtedness is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, such as our Euro and Japanese yen denominated debt; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend on our future operating performance and financial results, which will be subject, in part, to factors beyond our control, including interest rates, general economic, financial and business conditions and impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. If we do not have sufficient cash flow to service our indebtedness, including the repayment of significant near-term indebtedness, we may need to refinance all or part of our existing indebtedness, borrow more money or sell securities or assets, some or all of which may not be available to us at acceptable terms or at all. In addition, we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. Although the terms of our credit agreements and our bond indentures allow us to incur additional debt, this is subject to certain limitations which may preclude us from incurring the amount of indebtedness we otherwise desire. Although Viatris expects to maintain an investment grade credit rating, a downgrade in the credit rating of Viatris or any indebtedness of Viatris or its subsidiaries could increase the cost of further borrowings or refinancings of such indebtedness, limit access to sources of financing in the future or lead to other adverse consequences. 42 If we incur additional debt, the risks described above could intensify. If global credit markets contract, future debt financing may not be available to us when required or may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, and as a result we may be unable to grow our business, take advantage of business opportunities, respond to competitive pressures or satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. From time to time, we issue variable rate debt based on LIBOR or undertake interest rate swaps that contain a variable element based on LIBOR. While the FCA had announced that it intended to phase out LIBOR as a benchmark by the end of 2021, the administrator of LIBOR announced in November 2020 its intention to consult on ceasing publication of one-week and two-month U.S. dollar LIBOR settings at the end of 2021 and ceasing publication of the remaining overnight and one-, three-, six- and 12-month U.S. dollar LIBOR settings at the end of June 2023. While the proposal is not yet final, the FCA and other similar entities have supported this announcement and issued additional guidance. U.S. federal banking agencies also issued a joint statement in November 2020 encouraging banks to stop using LIBOR for new contracts as soon as possible but in any event by the end of the year. As of December 31, 2020, less than 5% of our outstanding debt is linked to LIBOR. Our credit facilities provide that, should LIBOR cease to exist, we may amend the credit facilities to replace LIBOR with (i) in the case of U.S. dollars, one or more rates based on SOFR or (ii) another alternate benchmark rate giving due consideration to any evolving or then existing convention for similarly syndicated credit facilities syndicated in the U.S. and denominated in the applicable currency for such alternative benchmarks and, in each case, including any mathematical or other adjustments to such benchmark giving due consideration to any evolving or then existing convention for similar syndicated credit facilities syndicated in the U.S. and denominated in the applicable currency for such benchmarks. SOFR or any other benchmark replacement may not be the economic equivalent of LIBOR or achieve market acceptance similar to LIBOR. As a result, our interest expense could increase. In addition, the overall financial market may be disrupted and there could be significant increases in benchmark rates or borrowing costs to borrowers as a result of the phase-out or replacement of LIBOR. Disruption in the financial market, significant increases in benchmark rates or borrowing costs or our inability to renegotiate agreements on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financing activities, financial condition and operations. Our credit facilities, senior unsecured notes, commercial paper program, other outstanding indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur in the future impose, or may impose, significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, make investments, pay certain dividends, prepay other indebtedness, sell assets, incur certain liens, enter into agreements with our affiliates or restricting our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends, merge or consolidate. In addition, our credit facilities require us to maintain specified financial ratios. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to maintain the required financial ratios could result in a default under the related indebtedness. If a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare our indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Any future changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions used or necessary revisions to prior estimates, judgments or assumptions or changes in accounting standards could lead to a restatement or revision to previously issued financial statements. The consolidated and condensed consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports we file with the SEC are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future and any necessary revisions to prior estimates, judgments or assumptions could lead to a restatement. Furthermore, although we have recorded reserves for litigation related contingencies based on estimates of probable future costs, such litigation related contingencies could result in substantial further costs. Also, any new or revised accounting standards may require adjustments to previously issued financial statements. Any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of liabilities, revenues, expenses and income and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. We must maintain adequate internal controls and be able to provide an assertion as to the effectiveness of such controls on an annual basis. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports. We spend a substantial amount of management and other employee time and resources to comply with laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure. In the U.S., such regulations include the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, SEC regulations and the NASDAQ listing standards. In particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and attestation as to the effectiveness of these controls by our independent registered public accounting firm. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our 43 internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. Additionally, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. There is a limited carveout offered by the SEC staff in its published Frequently Asked Questions on Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting and Certification of Disclosure in Exchange Act Periodic Reports (revised September 24, 2007) that allows an acquired business to be excluded from management’s annual report on internal control over financial reporting in circumstances where it is not possible to conduct an assessment of the acquired business’s internal controls and less than a year has passed since an acquisition. While we have availed ourselves of this relief with respect to the Upjohn Business for purposes of management’s annual report on internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020 and were otherwise able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of such date, there can be no assurance that our exclusion of internal controls at the Upjohn Business from our assessment will not be met with negative market reaction and will not have an adverse effect on our stock price. In addition, with respect to next year’s report, it is possible that we may experience delays in implementing or be unable to implement necessary internal controls and procedures with respect to the Upjohn Business or we may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any requested improvements in connection with the attestation process required of our independent registered public accounting firm pursuant to Section 404. Accordingly, either we or our independent registered public accounting firm (or both) may conclude that our internal controls are ineffective because of a material weakness in internal controls at Upjohn Business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. Viatris could suffer additional losses due to asset impairment charges. Viatris has significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets on its balance sheet. Viatris expects to test goodwill for impairment during the second quarter of every fiscal year, and on an interim date should events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable in accordance with ASC 350 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” If the fair value of a reporting unit is revised downward due to declines in business performance or other factors, an impairment under ASC 350 could result and a non-cash charge could be required. Viatris expects to test intangible assets with finite lives for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. This assessment of the recoverability of finite-lived intangible assets could result in an impairment and a non-cash charge could be required. Such impairments could materially affect Viatris’ reported net earnings, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. Viatris may be adversely affected by disruptions in the credit markets, including disruptions that reduce customers’ access to credit and increase the costs to customers of obtaining credit. The credit markets have historically been volatile and therefore it is not possible to predict the ability of Viatris’ customers to access short-term financing and other forms of capital. If a disruption in the credit markets were to occur, Viatris could be unable to refinance its outstanding indebtedness on reasonable terms or at all. Such a disruption could also pose a risk to Viatris’ business if customers or suppliers are unable to obtain financing to meet their payment or delivery obligations. In addition, customers may decide to downsize, defer or cancel contracts which could negatively affect our revenue. Further, Viatris had approximately $1.7 billion of floating rate debt as of December 31, 2020. A one percentage point increase in the average interest rate of this debt would increase the combined interest expense by approximately $17 million per year. Accordingly, a spike in interest rates would adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. In connection with the Combination, Viatris assumed or retained certain material obligations relating to defined benefit pension and termination benefits and retiree medical and dental benefits associated with legacy employees of the Upjohn Business and/or sponsored by Upjohn entities. These liabilities and the related future funding obligations could restrict cash available for Viatris’ operations, capital expenditures, dividend payments and other requirements, and may materially adversely affect Viatris’ financial condition and liquidity. In connection with the Combination, Viatris assumed material pension obligations associated with the Upjohn Business. In particular, Viatris retained all liabilities relating to the Puerto Rico defined benefit pension plans and Pfizer Puerto 44 Rico Retiree Medical and Dental Plan. In addition, with respect to non-U.S. defined benefit pension and termination benefit plans, Viatris generally established or designated plans similar to the Pfizer plans to assume assets and liabilities for the benefit of legacy employees of the Upjohn Business. Viatris also retained liabilities for legacy employees of the Upjohn Business who participate in the Japan defined benefit pension plan, to the extent such employees were employed by the Upjohn Business on the date of the Combination. Each of these liabilities and the related future payment obligations could restrict cash available for Viatris’ operations, capital expenditures, dividend payments and other requirements, and may materially affect Viatris’ financial condition and liquidity. General Risks The market price of our common stock may be volatile, and the value of your investment could materially decline. Investors who hold shares of Viatris common stock may not be able to sell their shares at or above the price at which they acquired them. The price of Viatris’ common stock may fluctuate materially from time to time, including as a result of the other risks described herein, and we cannot predict the price of our common stock at any given time. In addition, the stock market in general, including the market for pharmaceutical companies, has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations which may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, the price of our common stock may be affected by the valuations and recommendations of the analysts who cover us, and if our results do not meet the analysts’ forecasts and expectations, the price of our common stock could decline as a result of analysts lowering their valuations and recommendations or otherwise. Following periods of volatility in the market and/or in the price of a company’s stock, securities class-action litigation actions have been instituted against companies (including Mylan) and may be instituted against us in the future. Such litigation may result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. In addition, if we or our stockholders offer or sell shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of our common stock, this or the possibility thereof may depress the future trading price of our common stock and the voting power of our then existing stockholders may be diluted if such a transaction were to occur. The expansion of social media platforms presents new risks and challenges. To the extent that we seek to use social media tools as a means to communicate about our products and/or business, there are uncertainties as to the rules that apply to such communications, or as to the interpretations that authorities will apply to the rules that exist. As a result, despite our efforts to monitor evolving social media communication guidelines and comply with applicable rules, there is risk that our use of social media for such purposes may cause us to be found in violation of them. Our employees may knowingly or inadvertently make use of social media tools in ways that may not be aligned with our social media strategy, may give rise to liability, or could lead to the loss of material non-public information, trade secrets or other intellectual property, or public exposure of personal information (including sensitive personal information) of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. In addition, negative posts or comments about us on any social media website could damage our reputation. Any of the above risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or stock price. Provisions in the Viatris Charter and Viatris Bylaws and of applicable law may prevent or delay an acquisition of Viatris, which could decrease the trading price of Viatris common stock. The Viatris Charter, Viatris Bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that may have the effect of deterring takeovers by making such takeovers more expensive to the acquiror and by encouraging prospective acquirors to negotiate with the Viatris Board rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include the division of the Viatris Board into three classes of directors until the 2023 annual meeting of Viatris stockholders, which could have the effect of making the replacement of incumbent directors more time-consuming and difficult, rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings and the right of the Viatris Board to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between Viatris and any holder of 15% or more of Viatris’ outstanding common stock. These provisions are intended to protect Viatris’ stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with the Viatris Board and by providing the Viatris Board with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make Viatris immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that the Viatris Board determines is not in the best interests of Viatris and its stockholders. Accordingly, if the Viatris Board determines that a potential business combination transaction is not in the best interests of Viatris and its stockholders, but certain stockholders believe that such a transaction would be beneficial to Viatris and its stockholders, such stockholders may elect to sell their shares in Viatris and the trading price of Viatris common stock could decrease. These and other provisions of the 45 Viatris Charter, the Viatris Bylaws and the DGCL could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a proxy contest, tender offer, merger or other change in control, which may have a material adverse effect on Viatris’ business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. The Viatris Charter designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, or, if such court lacks subject matter jurisdiction, another state court of the State of Delaware (or, if no state court located within the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware), as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by Viatris’ stockholders, which could discourage lawsuits against Viatris and its directors and officers. The Viatris Charter provides that unless Viatris, through approval of the Viatris Board, otherwise consents in writing, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or, if and only if the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware dismisses such action for lack of subject matter jurisdiction, another state court sitting in the State of Delaware (or, if no state court located within the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware), will be the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of Viatris, any action or proceeding asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director or officer or other employees of Viatris to Viatris or its stockholders, creditors or other constituents, any action asserting a claim against Viatris or any of its directors, officers or other employees arising pursuant to, or seeking to enforce any right, obligation or remedy under, any provision of the DGCL or the Viatris Charter or the Viatris Bylaws, as each may be amended from time to time, any action or proceeding asserting a claim against Viatris or any of its directors, officers or other employees governed by the internal affairs doctrine or any action or proceeding as to which the DGCL (as it may be amended from time to time) confers jurisdiction on the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware. To the fullest extent permitted by law, this exclusive forum provision will apply to state and federal law claims, including claims under the federal securities laws, including the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. However, Viatris stockholders will not be deemed to have waived Viatris’ compliance with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. The enforceability of similar choice of forum provisions in other companies’ charters and bylaws has been challenged in legal proceedings, and it is possible that, in connection with claims arising under federal securities laws or otherwise, a court could find the exclusive forum provision contained in the Viatris Charter to be inapplicable or unenforceable. This exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of Viatris’ stockholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such stockholders find favorable for disputes with Viatris or its directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against Viatris or its directors or officers. Alternatively, if a court were to find this exclusive forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings described above, Viatris may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions or forums, which could materially and adversely affect Viatris’ business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis addresses material changes in the financial condition and results of operations of Viatris Inc. and subsidiaries for the periods presented. Unless context requires otherwise, the “Company,” “Viatris,” “our” or “we” refer to Viatris Inc. and its subsidiaries. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes to consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 in this Form 10-K, and our other SEC filings and public disclosures. This Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements”. These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements may include, without limitation, statements about the Combination, the benefits and synergies of the Combination or our global restructuring program, future opportunities for the Company and its products and any other statements regarding the Company’s future operations, financial or operating results, capital allocation, dividend policy, debt ratio, anticipated business levels, future earnings, planned activities, anticipated growth, market opportunities, strategies, competitions, and other expectations and targets for future periods. Forward-looking statements may often be identified by the use of words such as “will”, “may”, “could”, “should”, “would”, “project”, “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”, “plan”, “estimate”, “forecast”, “potential”, “pipeline”, “intend”, “continue”, “target”, “seek” and variations of these words or comparable words. Because forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties, actual future results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: • the integration of Mylan and the Upjohn Business or the implementation of the Company’s global restructuring program being more difficult, time consuming or costly than expected; • the possibility that the Company may be unable to achieve expected benefits, synergies and operating efficiencies in connection with the Combination or its global restructuring program within the expected timeframe or at all; • the possibility that the Company may be unable to successfully integrate Mylan and the Upjohn Business or implement its global restructuring program; • operational or financial difficulties or losses associated with the Company’s reliance on agreements with Pfizer in connection with the Combination, including with respect to transition services; • the possibility that the Company may be unable to achieve all intended benefits of its strategic initiatives; • the potential impact of public health outbreaks, epidemics and pandemics, including the ongoing challenges and uncertainties posed by the COVID-19 pandemic; • the Company’s failure to achieve expected or targeted future financial and operating performance and results; • actions and decisions of healthcare and pharmaceutical regulators; • changes in relevant laws and regulations, including but not limited to changes in tax, healthcare and pharmaceutical laws and regulations globally; • the ability to attract and retain key personnel; • the Company’s liquidity, capital resources and ability to obtain financing; • any regulatory, legal or other impediments to the Company’s ability to bring new products to market, including but not limited to “at-risk launches”; • success of clinical trials and the Company’s or its partners’ ability to execute on new product opportunities and develop, manufacture and commercialize products; • any changes in or difficulties with the Company’s manufacturing facilities, including with respect to inspections, remediation and restructuring activities, supply chain or inventory or the ability to meet anticipated demand; • the scope, timing and outcome of any ongoing legal proceedings, including government inquiries or investigations, and the impact of any such proceedings on the Company; • any significant breach of data security or data privacy or disruptions to our information technology systems; • risks associated with having significant operations globally; • the ability to protect intellectual property and preserve intellectual property rights; • changes in third-party relationships; • the effect of any changes in the Company’s or its partners’ customer and supplier relationships and customer purchasing patterns, including customer loss and business disruption being greater than expected following the Combination; • the impacts of competition, including decreases in sales or revenues as a result of the loss of market exclusivity for certain products; • changes in the economic and financial conditions of the Company or its partners; • uncertainties regarding future demand, pricing and reimbursement for the Company’s products; • uncertainties and matters beyond the control of management, including but not limited to general political and economic conditions and global exchange rates; and • inherent uncertainties involved in the estimates and judgments used in the preparation of financial statements, and the providing of estimates of financial measures, in accordance with U.S. GAAP and related standards or on an adjusted basis. 50 For more detailed information on the risks and uncertainties associated with Viatris, see the risks described in Part I, Item 1A in this Form 10-K, and our other filings with the SEC. You can access Viatris’ filings with the SEC through the SEC website at www.sec.gov or through our website and Viatris strongly encourages you to do so. Viatris routinely posts information that may be important to investors on our website at investor.viatris.com, and we use this website address as a means of disclosing material information to the public in a broad, non-exclusionary manner for purposes of the SEC’s Regulation Fair Disclosure (Reg FD). The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and shall not be deemed “filed” under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Viatris undertakes no obligation to update any statements herein for revisions or changes after the filing date of this Form 10-K other than as required by law. Explanatory Note In accordance with ASC 805, Business Combinations , Mylan is considered the accounting acquirer of the Upjohn Business and all historical financial information of the Company prior to November 16, 2020 represents Mylan’s historical results and the Company’s thereafter. Company Overview Viatris is a global healthcare company formed in November 2020 through the combination of Mylan and Upjohn, whose mission is to empower people worldwide to live healthier at every stage of life. By integrating the strengths of these two businesses, including our global workforce of approximately 45,000 employees and contractors, Viatris aims to deliver increased access to affordable, quality medicines for patients worldwide regardless of geography or circumstance. Viatris brings together industry leading commercial, R&D, regulatory, manufacturing, legal and medical expertise complemented by a strong commitment to quality and unparalleled geographic footprint to deliver high-quality medicines to patients in more than 165 countries and territories. Viatris’ portfolio comprises more than 1,400 approved molecules across a wide range of key therapeutic areas, including globally recognized iconic and key brand, generic, complex generic, and biosimilar products. Viatris operates approximately 50 manufacturing sites worldwide that produce oral solid doses, injectables, complex dosage forms and APIs. Viatris is headquartered in the U.S., with global centers in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Shanghai, China and Hyderabad, India. Viatris reports segment information on the basis of markets and geography. In conjunction with the formation of Viatris, the Company has changed its reportable segments, from North America, Europe, and Rest of World, to Developed Markets, Greater China, JANZ, and Emerging Markets. This approach reflects the Company’s focus on bringing its broad and diversified portfolio of branded, complex generics and biosimilars, and generic products to people in markets everywhere. Our Developed Markets segment comprises our operations primarily in North America and Europe. Our Greater China segment includes our operations in China, Taiwan and Hong Kong. Our JANZ segment reflects our operations in Japan, Australia and New Zealand. Our Emerging Markets segment encompasses our operations in countries with developing markets and emerging economies including countries in Asia, the Middle East, South and Central America, Africa and Eastern Europe, and also includes the Company’s anti-retroviral franchise. Certain Market and Industry Factors The global pharmaceutical industry is a highly competitive and highly regulated industry. As a result, we face a number of industry-specific factors and challenges, which can significantly impact our results. The following discussion highlights some of these key factors and market conditions. Generic products, particularly in the U.S., generally contribute most significantly to revenues and gross margins at the time of their launch, and even more so in periods of market exclusivity, or in periods of limited generic competition. As such, the timing of new product introductions can have a significant impact on the Company’s financial results. The entrance into the market of additional competition generally has a negative impact on the volume and pricing of the affected products. Additionally, pricing is often affected by factors outside of the Company’s control.Conversely, generic products generally experience less volatility over a longer period of time in Europe as compared to the U.S., primarily due to the role of government oversight of healthcare systems in the region. For branded products, the majority of the product’s commercial value is usually realized during the period in which the product has market exclusivity. In the U.S. and some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions of a product are approved and marketed, there can often be very substantial and rapid declines in the branded product’s sales. For example, several companies launched a generic to Lyrica® in Japan in December 2020 despite pending patent infringement litigation. While the litigation remains ongoing, the rate of generic conversion is significant and, combined with market dynamics relating to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company expects a significant reduction in the annual revenues of Lyrica®. 51 Certain markets in which we do business outside of the U.S. have undergone government-imposed price reductions, and further government-imposed price reductions are expected in the future. Such measures, along with the tender systems discussed below, are likely to have a negative impact on sales and gross profit in these markets. However, government initiatives in certain markets that appear to favor generic products could help to mitigate this unfavorable effect by increasing rates of generic substitution and penetration. Additionally, a number of markets in which we operate outside of the U.S. have implemented, or may implement, tender systems for generic pharmaceuticals in an effort to lower prices. Generally speaking, tender systems can have an unfavorable impact on sales and profitability. Under such tender systems, manufacturers submit bids that establish prices for generic pharmaceutical products. Upon winning the tender, the winning company will receive priority placement for a period of time. The tender system often results in companies underbidding one another by proposing low pricing in order to win the tender. The loss of a tender by a third party to whom we supply API can also have a negative impact on our sales and profitability. Sales continue to be negatively affected by the impact of tender systems in certain countries. Recent Developments 2020 Restructuring Program During the fourth quarter of 2020, Viatris announced a significant global restructuring program in order to achieve synergies of $1 billion and ensure that the organization is optimally structured and efficiently resourced to deliver sustainable value to patients, shareholders, customers, and other stakeholders. Viatris’ restructuring initiative incorporates and expands on the restructuring program announced by Mylan N.V. earlier in 2020 as part of its business transformation efforts. The company expects to optimize its commercial capabilities and enabling functions, and close, downsize or divest up to 15 manufacturing facilities globally that are deemed to be no longer viable either due to surplus capacity, challenging market dynamics or a shift in its product portfolio toward more complex products. As a result, Viatris expects that up to 20% of its global workforce of approximately 45,000 may be impacted upon completion of the restructuring initiative. For the committed restructuring actions, the Company expects to incur total pre-tax charges ranging between $1.1 billion and $1.4 billion. Such charges are expected to include between $350 million and $450 million of non-cash charges mainly related to accelerated depreciation and asset impairment charges, including inventory write-offs. The remaining estimated cash costs of between $750 million and $950 million are expected to be primarily related to severance and employee benefits expense, as well as other costs, including those related to contract terminations and decommissioning costs. In addition, management believes the potential annual savings related to these committed restructuring activities to be between $700 million and $900 million once fully implemented, with most of these savings expected to improve operating cash flow. 2016 Restructuring Program Mylan previously announced a restructuring program representing a series of actions in certain locations that are anticipated to further streamline its operations globally. We have incurred total restructuring related costs of approximately $733.0 million through December 31, 2020. The 2016 Restructuring Program is substantially complete at December 31, 2020. In April 2018, the FDA completed an inspection at Mylan’s plant in Morgantown, West Virginia and made observations through a Form 483. In the fourth quarter of 2018, Mylan received a warning letter related to the previously disclosed observations at the plant. The issues raised in the warning letter were addressed within the context of the Mylan’s comprehensive restructuring and remediation activities. On May 11, 2020 Mylan received the close-out of the warning letter. On December 11, 2020, the Company announced that it expects the Morgantown plant to be closed or divested as part of the 2020 Restructuring Program. Impact of the Coronavirus Pandemic As a leading global pharmaceutical company, Viatris is committed to continue doing its part in support of public health needs amid the evolving COVID-19 pandemic. The Company’s priorities remain protecting the health and safety of our workforce, continuing to produce critically needed medicines, deploying resources and expertise in the fight against COVID-19 through potential prevention and treatment efforts, supporting the communities in which we operate and maintaining the health of our overall business. The following section discusses the important measures the Company is taking in light of the COVID-19 pandemic. 52 Employee Health and Safety • Viatris continues to align with government and health authority guidelines in an effort to safeguard our workforce and continues to make assessments on an ongoing basis. • While Viatris’ business operations are currently considered essential based on government guidelines throughout the world due to the important role pharmaceutical manufacturers play within the global healthcare system, many Viatris administrative offices continue operating under work from home protocols. • Because protecting the health and safety of our workforce remains paramount, Viatris has taken extra precautions at manufacturing facilities to aid in the protection of site personnel and operations, including the implementation of social distancing guidelines, daily health assessments and split shifts where feasible. • Many customer facing field personnel have moved to a remote engagement model to ensure continued support for healthcare professionals, patient care and access to needed products. • Global restrictions have been placed on travel and in-person meetings. • Viatris has taken steps to protect the safety of study participants, our employees and staff at clinical trial sites and ensure regulatory compliance and scientific integrity of trial data. Continuing to Produce Critically Needed Medicines Manufacturing and Supply • Viatris has activated worldwide business continuity plans to seek to ensure that our global supply chain platform continues to operate without significant disruption. • All of our manufacturing facilities, and those of our key global partners, are currently operational and, at this time, we are not experiencing any significant disruptions to our supply chain, including the availability of APIs. Also, we are currently not experiencing any negative impact on our customer service levels. • Viatris continues to engage with regulatory authorities around the world who are committed to maintaining ongoing regulatory processes while also continuing to make available our global R&D, regulatory and manufacturing expertise and capacity to partners who may be in need of additional resources. Commercial Operations • We have and continue to experience certain negative fluctuations in demand trends due to COVID-19. We will continue to monitor trends closely as we work to ensure patients have access to needed medicine. • Inventory levels, both ours and those in our distribution channel, remain in-line with normal levels and are currently assessed to be sufficient for anticipated demand. Deploying Resources and Expertise in the Fight Against COVID-19 Product Development • On May 12, 2020, Mylan announced a global collaboration with Gilead Sciences, Inc. to expand access to the investigational antiviral remdesivir for the potential treatment of COVID-19. Under the terms of the license agreement the Company has rights to manufacture and distribute remdesivir in 127 low-and middle-income countries, including India. • On July 6, 2020, Mylan announced that the DCGI approved its remdesivir 100 mg/vial for restricted emergency use in India as part of the DCGI’s accelerated approval process to address urgent, unmet needs amid the evolving COVID-19 pandemic. 53 • On November 20, 2020, the WHO issued a conditional recommendation against the use of remdesivir in hospitalized patients, regardless of disease severity, as there was no evidence that remdesivir improved survival and other outcomes in these patients. Maintaining the Health of Our Overall Business Access to Capital Markets and Liquidity While currently we are not experiencing any negative liquidity trends related to the COVID-19 pandemic, we continue to closely monitor developments and the potential negative impact on our operating performance and our ability to access the capital markets. Due to the Company’s ability to generate significant cash flows from operations, as well as its revolving credit agreement, other short-term borrowing facilities and access to capital markets, we believe that we currently have, and will maintain, the ability to meet foreseeable liquidity needs. Impact on Results of Operations The global spread of COVID-19 has created significant volatility, uncertainty and economic disruption affecting the markets we serve, and has had a negative impact on our current year results of operations. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will impact our business, operations and financial results in future periods will depend on numerous evolving factors that are beyond our control and that we may not be able to accurately predict. For additional information, see Results of Operations in Part II. Item 7. Financial Summary The table below is a summary of the Company’s financial results for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the prior year period: A detailed discussion of the Company’s financial results can be found below in the section titled “Results of Operations.” As part of this discussion, we also report sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measures of “constant currency” net sales and total revenues. These measures provide information on the change in net sales and total revenues assuming that foreign currency exchange rates had not changed between the prior and current period. The comparisons presented at constant currency rates reflect comparative local currency sales at the prior year’s foreign exchange rates. We routinely evaluate our net sales and total revenues performance at constant currency so that sales results can be viewed without the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating a period-to-period comparison of our operational activities, and believe that this presentation also provides useful information to investors for the same reason. More information about non-GAAP measures used by the Company as part of this discussion, including adjusted cost of sales, adjusted gross margins, adjusted net earnings, and adjusted EBITDA (all of which are defined below) are discussed further in this Part II. Item 7 under Results of Operations and Results of Operations — Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures . Results of Operations 54 2020 Compared to 2019 ____________ (1) Currency impact is shown as unfavorable (favorable). (2) The constant currency percentage change is derived by translating net sales or revenues for the current period at prior year comparative period exchange rates, and in doing so shows the percentage change from 2020 constant currency net sales or revenues to the corresponding amount in the prior year. (3) For the year ended December 31, 2020, other revenues in Developed Markets, Greater China, JANZ, and Emerging Markets were approximately $94.0 million, $0.3 million, $10.5 million, and $21.3 million, respectively. (4) Amounts exclude intersegment revenue which eliminates on a consolidated basis. Total Revenues For the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company reported total revenues of $11.95 billion, compared to $11.50 billion for the comparable prior year period, representing an increase of $445.5 million, or 4%. Total revenues include both net sales and other revenues from third parties. Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2020 were $11.82 billion, compared to $11.37 billion for the comparable prior year period, representing an increase of $449.6 million, or 4%. Other revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020 were $126.1 million, compared to $130.2 million for the comparable prior year period, a decrease of $4.1 million. The increase in net sales was primarily the result of increases in net sales in the Developed Markets segment of 3%, the Emerging Markets segment of 8%, and the Greater China segment of 21%. The Company’s net sales were unfavorably impacted by the effect of foreign currency translation, primarily reflecting changes in the U.S. Dollar as compared to the currencies of subsidiaries in India and other emerging markets, partially offset by the favorable effect of foreign currency translation in countries within the EU. The net unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation on current year net sales was approximately $28.0 million, or less than 1%. On a constant currency basis, the increase in net sales was approximately $477.6 million, or 4% for the year ended December 31, 2020. This increase was driven by net sales totaling $864.9 million from the Upjohn Business following the consummation of the Combination and new product sales, partially offset by a decrease in net sales from existing products as a result of lower pricing and volumes. W e estimate that the COVID-19 pandemic negatively impacted our 2020 net sales by approximately 3%, primarily driven by lower retail pharmacy demand, lower non-COVID-19 related patient hospital visits and a lower number of in person meetings with prescribers and payors. From time to time, a limited number of our products may represent a significant portion of our net sales, gross profit and net earnings. Generally, this is due to the timing of new product introductions and the amount, if any, of additional competition in the market. Our top ten products in terms of net sales, in the aggregate, represented approximately 23% for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. This percentage may fluctuate based upon the timing of new product launches, seasonality and the timing of the discontinuation of products. As a result of the Combination, we estimate that the percentage of our top products could change in future periods. 55 Net sales are derived from our four reporting segments: Developed Markets, Greater China, JANZ and Emerging Markets. Developed Markets Segment Net sales from Developed Markets increased by $270.9 million or 3% during the year ended December 31, 2020 when compared to the prior year. Net sales within North America totaled approximately $4.2 billion and net sales within Europe totaled approximately $4.3 billion. This increase was due primarily to new product sales, and net sales from the Upjohn Business following the consummation of the Combination of $317.5 million. This increase was partially offset by lower volumes primarily driven by the EpiPen® Auto-Injector, and to a lesser extent, by lower pricing of existing products, driven by changes in the competitive environment, including for Levothyroxine Sodium. Lower volumes of existing products were partially offset by increased Wixela TM Inhub TM volumes. The favorable impact of foreign currency translation on current period net sales was approximately $72.4 million, or 1%. Constant currency net sales increased by approximately $198.5 million, or 2% when compared to the prior year. Greater China Segment Net sales from Greater China increased by $45.3 million or 21% for the year ended December 31, 2020 when compared to the prior year. This increase was the result of net sales from the Upjohn Business following the consummation of the Combination of $226.5 million. This was partially offset by lower net sales of existing products, driven by lower volumes, and to a lesser extent, lower pricing. Lower volumes on net sales of existing products were negatively impacted by the competitive market conditions, including VBP, and COVID-19. The unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation was approximately $1.5 million, or 1%. Constant currency net sales increased by approximately $46.8 million, or 22% when compared to the prior year. JANZ Segment Net sales from JANZ increased by $2.8 million or less than 1% for the year ended December 31, 2020 when compared to the prior year. This increase was the result of net sales from the Upjohn Business following the consummation of the Combination of $171.8 million, and to a lesser extent, new product sales, primarily in Australia. These increases were partially offset by lower net sales of existing products, driven by lower volumes, and to a lesser extent, lower pricing. Lower volumes on net sales of existing products were effected by the estimated negative impact of COVID-19, and the impact of the termination of the collaboration agreement with Pfizer in Japan. As a result of the termination, and the repurchase of collaboration inventory, the Company reduced revenue by $86.5 million. Lower pricing on net sales of existing products were driven by government price reductions in Japan and Australia. Foreign currency translation had a favorable impact of approximately $4.8 million, or less than 1%. Constant currency net sales decreased by approximately $2.0 million, or less than 1% when compared to the prior year. Emerging Markets Segment Net sales from Emerging Markets increased by $130.6 million or 8% for the year ended December 31, 2020 when compared to the prior year. This increase was the result of net sales from the Upjohn Business following the consummation of the Combination of $149.1 million and new product sales, including Remdesivir in India and other emerging markets. These increases were partially offset by lower net sales of existing products, driven by lower pricing. Volumes on existing products increased primarily as a result of increases from the Company’s ARV franchise. The increase in net sales was partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation of $103.7 million, or 6%. Constant currency net sales increased by approximately $234.3 million, or 14%. Cost of Sales and Gross Profit Cost of sales increased from $7.60 billion from the year ended December 31, 2019 to $8.15 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020. Cost of sales was primarily impacted by purchase accounting related amortization of acquired intangible assets and other special items, which are described further in the section titled Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures . Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $3.80 billion and gross margins were 32%. For the year ended December 31, 2019, gross profit was $3.90 billion and gross margins were 34%. Gross margins were negatively impacted by the decline in gross profit from net sales of existing products, partially offset by net sales of new product sales, of approximately $380 million. This decline in gross profit was primarily the result of lower pricing in the Developed Markets and lower net sales in Greater China and JANZ and includes the impacts of unfavorable competitive market conditions, COVID-19 and the termination of a collaboration agreement with Pfizer in Japan. In addition, gross margins were negatively impacted by 56 approximately $182 million from higher restructuring and acquisition related costs, as well as additional costs due to COVID-19. These unfavorable items were partially offset by gross profit from the Combination of approximately $223 million, and lower legacy business amortization and impairment charges compared to the prior year of approximately $238 million. Adjusted gross margins were approximately 54% and 53% for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. A reconciliation between cost of sales, as reported under U.S. GAAP, and adjusted cost of sales and adjusted gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 is as follows: ____________ (a) Adjusted gross profit is calculated as total revenues less adjusted cost of sales. Adjusted gross margin is calculated as adjusted gross profit divided by total revenues. Operating Expenses Research & Development Expense R&D expense for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $555.1 million, compared to $639.9 million for the prior year, a decrease of $84.8 million. This decrease was primarily due to lower expenditures related to the reprioritization of global programs, and higher payments in the prior year related to licensing arrangements for products in development. Partially offsetting this decrease was R&D expense incurred from the Combination of $22.4 million. Selling, General & Administrative Expense SG&A expense for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $3.34 billion, compared to $2.56 billion for the prior year, an increase of $781.0 million. The increase was primarily due to an increase of approximately $587.5 million in Combination related costs. These costs include approximately $200.9 million for advisory and consulting fees, $303.5 million related to the Company’s obligation to reimburse Pfizer for certain financing and transaction related costs under the BCA and SDA and approximately $69.3 million of employee related change in control and retention amounts. Also contributing to the increase were costs related to the Upjohn Business incurred from the date of the Combination of $280.7 million, and approximately $111.2 million increase in restructuring costs due to the implementation of the 2020 restructuring program. Partially offsetting these increases were lower selling and promotional expenses, including through our active management and certain lower expenses as a result of COVID-19. 57 Litigation Settlements and Other Contingencies, Net During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company recorded a net charge of $107.8 million for litigation settlements and other contingencies, net, compared to a net gain of $21.4 million in the prior year. The following table includes the losses / (gains) recognized in litigation settlements and other contingencies, net during the year ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively: During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company recorded a $73.1 million loss for fair value adjustments related to respiratory delivery platform contingent consideration. Additionally, the Company recorded a net charge of approximately $34.7 million related to a number of litigation matters. During the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company recognized a net gain in litigation settlements of approximately $1.0 million. This net gain was primarily due to a favorable litigation settlement related to the Celgene Corporation matter of $62.0 million, which was partially offset by litigation related charges for settlements reached during the year. Charges for litigation related matters included $18.0 million for the modafinil antitrust matter and $30.0 million for Mylan’s settlement with the SEC. In addition, a $20.4 million gain was recognized for the reduction of contingent consideration related to the respiratory delivery platform. Interest Expense Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2020 totaled $497.8 million, compared to $517.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, a decrease of $19.5 million. The decrease is primarily due to lower average long-term debt balances during the current year, partially offset by the interest expense related to the additional debt assumed in the Combination of approximately $26.8 million. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net was $12.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to other expense, net of $43.8 million for the prior year. Other expense (income), net includes losses from equity affiliates, foreign exchange gains and losses, and interest and dividend income. Other expense (income), net was comprised of the following for the year ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively: Income Tax (Benefit) Provision For the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company recognized an income tax benefit of $51.3 million, compared to an income tax provision of $137.6 million for the comparable prior year, an increase in the benefit of $188.9 million. The current year benefit recognized was the result of tax impacts related to the Combination. These impacts include a benefit related to recording deferred tax assets for non-U.S. entities that will be taxed in the both their local jurisdictions and U.S., offset by the loss of certain attributes in non-U.S. jurisdictions and non-deductible transaction and employee related costs.  During the year ended December 31, 2019, we reached an agreement in principle with the IRS to resolve all issues relating to our positions on the EPD Business Acquisition. As a result, the Company recorded a reserve of approximately $155.0 million as part of its 58 liability for uncertain tax positions, with a net impact to the income tax provision of approximately $144.9 million. Also impacting the current and prior year income tax provision and benefit, respectively, was the changing mix of income earned in jurisdictions with differing tax rates. 2019 Compared to 2018 ____________ (1) Currency impact is shown as unfavorable (favorable). (2) The constant currency percentage change is derived by translating net sales or revenues for the current period at prior year comparative period exchange rates, and in doing so shows the percentage change from 2019 constant currency net sales or revenues to the corresponding amount in the prior year. (3) For the year ended December 31, 2019, other revenues in Developed Markets, Greater China, JANZ, and Emerging Markets were approximately $90.2 million, $0.5 million, $3.1 million, and $36.4 million, respectively. (4) Amounts exclude intersegment revenue which eliminates on a consolidated basis. Total Revenues For the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company reported total revenues of $11.50 billion compared to $11.43 billion for the comparable prior year period, representing an increase of $66.6 million, or 1%. Total revenues include both net sales and other revenues from third parties. Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2019 were $11.37 billion, compared to $11.27 billion for the comparable prior year period, representing an increase of $101.6 million, or 1%. Other revenues for the year ended December 31, 2019 were $130.2 million, compared to $165.2 million for the comparable prior year period, a decrease of $35.0 million. The increase in net sales was the result of increases in net sales in the JANZ segment of 5%, the Greater China segment of 28%, and the Emerging Markets segment of 3%, partially offset by a decrease in the Developed Markets segment of 1%. The Company’s net sales were unfavorably impacted by the effect of foreign currency translation, primarily reflecting changes in the U.S. Dollar as compared to the currencies of subsidiaries in the EU, Australia and India. The unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation on current year net sales was approximately $322.4 million, or 3%. On a constant currency basis, the increase in net sales was approximately $424.0 million, or 4% for the year ended December 31, 2019. This increase was driven by new product sales, partially offset by a decrease in net sales from existing products as a result of lower pricing and volumes. From time to time, a limited number of our products may represent a significant portion of our net sales, gross profit and net earnings. Generally, this is due to the timing of new product introductions and the amount, if any, of additional competition in the market. Our top ten products in terms of net sales, in the aggregate, represented approximately 23% and 20% for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. This percentage may fluctuate based upon the timing of new product launches, seasonality and the timing of the discontinuation of products. 59 Net sales are derived from our four reporting segments: Developed Markets, Greater China, JANZ and Emerging Markets. Developed Markets Segment Net sales from Developed Markets decreased by $49.1 million or 1% during the year ended December 31, 2019 when compared to the prior year. Net sales within North America totaled approximately $4.2 billion and net sales within Europe totaled approximately $4.1 billion. New product sales, including the Wixela TM Inhub TM , Fulphila® (biosimilar to Neulasta®) and YUPELRI TM , were partially offset by lower net sales from existing products due to lower volumes and pricing driven by changes in the competitive environment and portfolio rationalization. In addition, net sales were negatively impacted by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation of $231.0 million, or 3%. Constant currency net sales increased by approximately $181.9 million, or 2% when compared to the prior year. Greater China Segment Net sales from Greater China increased by $46.5 million or 28% for the year ended December 31, 2019 when compared to the prior year. This increase was primarily the result of higher net sales from existing products, primarily driven by higher volumes, and to a lesser extent, favorable pricing and new product sales. These increases were partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation of $8.6 million, or 5%. Constant currency net sales increased by approximately $55.1 million, or 33% when compared to the prior year. JANZ Segment Net sales from JANZ increased by $59.7 million or 5% for the year ended December 31, 2019 when compared to the prior year. This increase was primarily the result of higher net sales from existing products and new product sales. The increase to net sales from existing products was driven by higher volumes and was partially offset by unfavorable pricing. New products sales was primarily due to new product sales in Australia. These increases were partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation of $27.8 million, or 3%. Constant currency net sales increased by approximately $87.5 million, or 8% when compared to the prior year. Emerging Markets Segment Net sales from Emerging Markets increased by $44.5 million or 3% for the year ended December 31, 2019 when compared to the prior year. This increase was primarily the result of higher volumes of existing products and, to a lesser extent, new product sales. Volumes of existing products increased primarily due to increases in the Company’s ARV franchise and certain emerging markets. The increase in net sales as a result of new products was primarily due to new product sales in certain emerging markets and from the Company’s ARV franchise. These increases were partially offset by lower pricing on existing products and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation. Overall, net sales from Emerging Markets were unfavorably impacted by the effect of foreign currency translation of approximately $55.0 million, or 3%. Constant currency net sales increased by approximately $99.5 million, or 6%. Cost of Sales and Gross Profit Cost of sales increased from $7.43 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 to $7.60 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019. Cost of sales was primarily impacted by purchase accounting related amortization of acquired intangible assets and other special items, which are described further in the section titled Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $3.90 billion and gross margins were 34%. For the year ended December 31, 2018, gross profit was $4.00 billion and gross margins were 35%. Gross margins were negatively impacted by the decline in sales of existing products by approximately 550 basis points. The decline in sales of existing products was primarily in North America and includes the impacts of product rationalization. Partially offsetting this impact, gross margins were positively impacted by approximately 500 basis points due to new product introductions primarily in North America. Adjusted gross margins were approximately 53% and 54% for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Adjusted gross margins were negatively impacted by lower gross profit from sales of existing products partially offset by gross margins on new product introductions primarily in North America. 60 A reconciliation between cost of sales, as reported under U.S. GAAP, and adjusted cost of sales and adjusted gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 is as follows: ____________ (a) Adjusted gross profit is calculated as total revenues less adjusted cost of sales. Adjusted gross margin is calculated as adjusted gross profit divided by total revenues. Operating Expenses Research & Development Expense R&D expense for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $639.9 million, compared to $704.5 million for the prior year, a decrease of $64.6 million. This decrease was primarily due to lower expenditures related to the reprioritization of global programs and lower restructuring related costs. Selling, General & Administrative Expense SG&A expense for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $2.56 billion, compared to $2.44 billion for the prior year, an increase of $122.6 million. The increase was primarily due to an increase of approximately $82.5 million for consulting fees and other expenses primarily related to the Combination in addition to increased investment in selling and marketing activities. Also contributing to the increase was higher share-based compensation expense of approximately $60.7 million as a result of the reversal of all of the cumulative expense related to certain performance-based awards totaling $70.6 million in the prior year. Partially offsetting these increases was bad debt expense of approximately $26.5 million incurred in the prior year related to a special business interruption event for one customer and $20.0 million of compensation expense for an additional discretionary bonus for a certain group of employees in the prior year. None of the employees who received the 2018 discretionary bonus were named executive officers. 61 Litigation Settlements and Other Contingencies, Net During the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company recorded a net gain of $21.4 million for litigation settlements and other contingencies, net, compared to $49.5 million in the prior year. The following table includes the (gains) / losses recognized in litigation settlements and other contingencies, net during the year ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively: During the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company recognized a net gain in litigation settlements of approximately $1.0 million. This net gain was primarily due to a favorable litigation settlement related to the Celgene Corporation matter of $62.0 million, which was partially offset by litigation related charges for settlements reached during the year. Charges for litigation related matters included $18.0 million for the modafinil antitrust matter and $30.0 million for Mylan’s settlement with the SEC. In addition, a $20.4 million gain was recognized for the reduction of contingent consideration related to the acquisition of the exclusive worldwide rights to develop, manufacture and commercialize a generic equivalent to GlaxoSmithKline’s Advair® Diskus incorporating Pfizer’s respiratory delivery platform. Litigation settlements for the year ended December 31, 2018 consisted primarily of a gain of approximately $22.9 million related to a favorable litigation settlement, which was partially offset by litigation related charges of approximately $14.9 million related to an antitrust and a patent infringement matter. In addition, a $44.0 million gain was recognized for the change in value of contingent consideration related to the respiratory delivery platform, which was partially offset by losses incurred on other contingent consideration. Interest Expense Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2019 totaled $517.3 million, compared to $542.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, a decrease of $25.0 million. The decrease is primarily due to lower average long-term debt balances during the current year. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net, was $43.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to other expense, net of $64.9 million for the prior year. Other expense (income), net includes losses from equity affiliates, foreign exchange gains and losses, and interest and dividend income. Other expense (income), net was comprised of the following for the year ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively: Income Tax Provision (Benefit) For the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company recognized an income tax provision of $137.6 million, compared to an income tax benefit of $54.1 million for the comparable prior year, an increase of $191.7 million. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we reached an agreement in principle with the IRS to resolve all issues relating to our positions on the EPD Business Acquisition. As a result, the Company recorded a reserve of approximately $155.0 million as part of its liability for 62 uncertain tax positions, with a net impact to the income tax provision of approximately $144.9 million. The tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2018 included a net benefit to the income tax provision of approximately $53.0 million as a result of the federal and state audits and settlements and expirations of certain state, federal, and foreign statutes of limitations. Partially offsetting this benefit was an increase in the reserve for uncertain tax benefits of approximately $18.0 million for certain other matters. Also impacting the current and prior year income tax provision and benefit, respectively, was the changing mix of income earned in jurisdictions with differing tax rates. Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Whenever the Company uses non-GAAP financial measures, we provide a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure. Investors and other readers are encouraged to review the related U.S. GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to their most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure and should consider non-GAAP measures only as a supplement to, not as a substitute for or as a superior measure to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Additionally, since these are not measures determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, non-GAAP financial measures have no standardized meaning across companies, or as prescribed by U.S. GAAP and, therefore, may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures or measures with the same title used by other companies. Management uses these measures internally for forecasting, budgeting, measuring its operating performance, and incentive-based awards. Primarily due to acquisitions and other significant events which may impact comparability of our periodic operating results, we believe that an evaluation of our ongoing operations (and comparisons of our current operations with historical and future operations) would be difficult if the disclosure of our financial results was limited to financial measures prepared only in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We believe that non-GAAP financial measures are useful supplemental information for our investors and when considered together with our U.S. GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure, provide a more complete understanding of the factors and trends affecting our operations. The financial performance of the Company is measured by senior management, in part, using adjusted metrics as described below, along with other performance metrics. Adjusted Cost of Sales and Adjusted Gross Margin We use the non-GAAP financial measure “adjusted cost of sales” and the corresponding non-GAAP financial measure “adjusted gross margin.” The principal items excluded from adjusted cost of sales include restructuring, acquisition related and other special items and purchase accounting amortization and other related items, which are described in greater detail below. Adjusted Net Earnings Adjusted net earnings is a non-GAAP financial measure and provides an alternative view of performance used by management. Management believes that, primarily due to acquisition activity and other significant events, an evaluation of the Company’s ongoing operations (and comparisons of its current operations with historical and future operations) would be difficult if the disclosure of its financial results were limited to financial measures prepared only in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Management believes that adjusted net earnings is an important internal financial metric related to the ongoing operating performance of the Company, and are therefore useful to investors and that their understanding of our performance is enhanced by this measure. Actual internal and forecasted operating results and annual budgets used by management include adjusted net earnings. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP financial measures that the Company believes are appropriate to provide additional information to investors to demonstrate the Company’s ability to comply with financial debt covenants and assess the Company’s ability to incur additional indebtedness. The Company also believes that adjusted EBITDA better focuses management on the Company’s underlying operational results and true business performance and, beginning in 2020, is used, in part, for management’s incentive compensation. We calculate “EBITDA” as U.S. GAAP net earnings (loss) adjusted for net contribution attributable to equity method investments, income tax provision (benefit), interest expense and depreciation and amortization. EBITDA is further adjusted for share-based compensation expense, litigation settlements and other contingencies, net, and restructuring and other special items to determine “adjusted EBITDA”. These adjustments are generally permitted under our credit agreement in calculating Adjusted EBITDA for determining compliance with our debt covenants. The significant items excluded from adjusted cost of sales, adjusted net earnings, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA include: 63 Purchase Accounting Amortization and Other Related Items The ongoing impact of certain amounts recorded in connection with acquisitions of both businesses and assets is excluded from adjusted cost of sales, adjusted net earnings, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA. These amounts include the amortization of intangible assets, inventory step-up, property, plant and equipment step-up, and intangible asset impairment charges, including for in-process research and development. For the acquisition of businesses accounted for under the provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 805, these purchase accounting impacts are excluded regardless of the financing method used for the acquisitions, including the use of cash, long-term debt, the issuance of common stock, contingent consideration or any combination thereof. Upfront and Milestone-Related R&D Expenses These expenses and payments are excluded from adjusted net earnings and adjusted EBITDA because they generally occur at irregular intervals and are not indicative of the Company’s ongoing operations. Accretion of Contingent Consideration Liability and Other Fair Value Adjustments The impact of changes to the fair value of contingent consideration and accretion expense are excluded from adjusted net earnings and adjusted EBITDA because they are not indicative of the Company’s ongoing operations due to the variability of the amounts and the lack of predictability as to the occurrence and/or timing and management believes their exclusion is helpful to understanding the underlying, ongoing operational performance of the business. Share-based Compensation Expense Share-based compensation expense is excluded from adjusted net earnings and adjusted EBITDA. Our share-based compensation programs have become increasingly weighted toward performance-based compensation, which leads to variability and to a lack of predictability as to the occurrence and/or timing of amounts incurred. As such, management believes the exclusion of such amounts on an ongoing basis is helpful to understanding the underlying operational performance of the business. Restructuring, Acquisition Related and Other Special Items Costs related to restructuring, acquisition and integration activities and other actions are excluded from adjusted cost of sales, adjusted net earnings and adjusted EBITDA, as applicable. These amounts include items such as: • Costs related to formal restructuring programs and actions, including costs associated with facilities to be closed or divested, employee separation costs, impairment charges, accelerated depreciation, incremental manufacturing variances, equipment relocation costs, decommissioning and other restructuring related costs; • Certain acquisition related remediation and integration and planning costs, as well as other costs associated with acquisitions such as advisory and legal fees, certain financing related costs, certain reimbursements related to the Company’s obligation to reimburse Pfizer for certain financing and transaction related costs under the BCA and SDA, certain other TSA related exit costs, and other business transformation and/or optimization initiatives, which are not part of a formal restructuring program, including employee separation and post-employment costs; • The pre-tax loss of the Company’s clean energy investments, whose activities qualify for income tax credits under the Code; only included in adjusted net earnings is the net tax effect of the entity’s activities; • Other costs, incurred from time to time, related to certain special events or activities that lead to gains or losses, including, but not limited to, incremental manufacturing variances, asset write-downs, or liability adjustments; • Certain costs to further develop and optimize our global enterprise resource planning systems, operations and supply chain; and • The impact of changes related to uncertain tax positions is excluded from adjusted net earnings. In addition, tax adjustments to adjusted earnings are recorded to present items on an after-tax basis consistent with the presentation of adjusted net earnings. The Company has undertaken restructurings and other optimization initiatives of differing types, scope and amount during the covered periods and, therefore, these charges should not be considered non-recurring; however, management excludes these amounts from adjusted net earnings and adjusted EBITDA because it believes it is helpful to understanding the underlying, ongoing operational performance of the business. 64 Litigation Settlements, Net Charges and gains related to legal matters, such as those discussed in Note 19 Litigation included in Part II. Item 8 of this Form 10-K are generally excluded from adjusted net earnings and adjusted EBITDA. Normal, ongoing defense costs incurred by the Company in the normal course of our business are not excluded. Reconciliation of U.S. GAAP Net Earnings to Adjusted Net Earnings A reconciliation between net (loss) earnings as reported under U.S. GAAP, and adjusted net earnings for the periods shown follows: Significant items for the year ended December 31, 2020 include the following: (a ) Includes amortization of the purchase accounting inventory fair value adjustment related to the Combination totaling approximately $238.2 million. (b) Acquisition related costs consist primarily of transaction costs including legal and consulting fees and integration activities. Refer to SG&A discussion within the section “2020 Compared to 2019”. (c) For the year ended December 31, 2020, charges of approximately $207.7 million are included in cost of sales, approximately $0.4 million is included in R&D, and approximately $115.0 million is included in SG&A. Refer to Note 17 Restructuring included in Part II. Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information. (d) Beginning in 2019, share-based compensation expense is excluded from adjusted net earnings. The full year impact for the year ended December 31, 2018 was insignificant. As such, the 2018 amount was not added back to U.S. GAAP net earnings. (e) Costs incurred during the year ended December 31, 2020 includes incremental manufacturing variances and site remediation activities as a result of the activities at the Company’s Morgantown plant of approximately $238.4 million and incremental manufacturing variances and special bonus incurred as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic of $67.7 million. (f) Adjustments primarily relate to non-refundable payments related to development collaboration agreements. Reconciliation of U.S. GAAP Net Earnings to EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Below is a reconciliation of U.S. GAAP net (loss) earnings to EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA for the twelve months ended December 31, 2020 compared to the prior year period: 65 (a) Includes clean energy investment financing and accretion of contingent consideration. (b) Includes purchase accounting related amortization. (c) See items detailed in the Reconciliation of U.S. GAAP Net (Loss) Earnings to Adjusted Net Earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary source of liquidity is net cash provided by operating activities, which was $1.23 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020. We believe that net cash provided by operating activities and available liquidity will continue to allow us to meet our needs for working capital, capital expenditures and interest and principal payments on debt obligations. Nevertheless, our ability to satisfy our working capital requirements and debt service obligations, or fund planned capital expenditures, will substantially depend upon our future operating performance (which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions), and financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $571.9 million to $1.23 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $1.80 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019. Net cash provided by operating activities is derived from net (loss) earnings adjusted for non-cash operating items, gains and losses attributed to investing and financing activities and changes in operating assets and liabilities resulting from timing differences between the receipts and payments of cash, including changes in cash primarily reflecting the timing of cash collections from customers, payments to vendors and employees and tax payments in the ordinary course of business. 66 The net decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was principally due to the following: • a decrease in net earnings for the year ended December 31, 2020 of $686.7 million, principally as a result of a decrease in earnings from operations as a result of Combination and restructuring related expenses; • a net increase of $229.0 million in the amount of cash used through changes in inventory balances; • a net decrease in the amount of cash provided by changes in income taxes of $54.3 million as a result of the level and timing of estimated tax payments made during the current period. These items were partially offset by the following: • a net increase in non-cash expenses of $303.3 million; and • a net increase in the amount of cash provided by changes in accounts receivable of $98.7 million, reflecting the timing of sales and cash collections including the impact of factoring arrangements. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $301.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to net cash used in investing activities of $525.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, a decrease of $224.3 million. In 2020, significant items in investing activities included the following: • cash received from acquisitions, net totaling approximately $415.8 million primarily related to the cash received as part of the Combination; • payments for product rights and other, net totaling approximately $438.2 million, primarily related to the acquisition of Aspen’s thrombosis product portfolio in Europe along with other acquisitions of intellectual property rights and marketing authorizations; • proceeds from the sale of assets of $20.0 million; and • capital expenditures, primarily for equipment and facilities, totaling approximately $243.0 million. While there can be no assurance that current expectations will be realized, capital expenditures for the 2021 calendar year are expected to be approximately $500 million to $650 million. In 2019, significant items in investing activities included the following: • cash paid for acquisitions, net totaling approximately $148.7 million, primarily related to payments to Novartis for the purchase of the worldwide rights to the TOBI Podhaler® and TOBI® solution global cystic fibrosis products; • payments for product rights and other, net totaling approximately $192.8 million, primarily related to the acquisitions of intellectual property rights and marketing authorizations; • proceeds from the sale of assets of $28.0 million; and • capital expenditures, primarily for equipment and facilities, totaling approximately $213.2 million. 67 Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $605.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to net cash used in financing activities of $1.17 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019, a decrease of $563.3 million. In 2020, significant items in financing activities included the following: • net short-term borrowings of $1.10 billion; • long-term borrowings under the Revolving Facility of $983.0 million; • long-term debt payments of approximately $2.48 billion, consisting primarily of repayment at maturity of €500.0 million principal amount of Floating Rate Euro Notes due May 2020, repayment at maturity of €750.0 million principal amount of Euro Senior Notes due November 2020, repayment of $983.0 million of borrowings under the Revolving Facility and repayment at maturity of $50.0 million principal amount of Senior Notes due 2020; • non-contingent payments for product rights totaling approximately $143.3 million primarily related to the acquisitions of intellectual property rights and marketing authorizations in prior periods; and • payments totaling approximately $48.5 million (of the $111.8 million) in profit share and milestone payments related to the respiratory delivery platform contingent consideration. The remaining payments related to the respiratory delivery platform contingent consideration are included as a component of other operating assets and liabilities, net within net cash from operating activities. In 2019, significant items in financing activities included the following: • long-term debt payments of approximately $1.11 billion consisting primarily of the repayment at maturity of $550.0 million principal amount of the 2.500% Senior Notes due 2019, the partial redemption of $450.0 million principal amount of the 3.750% Senior Notes due 2020 and the repayment of the remaining approximately $100.0 million balance of the 2016 Term Facility; and • payments totaling approximately $60.3 million (of the total $99.0 million) in milestone payments related to Pfizer’s respiratory delivery platform contingent consideration. The remaining payments related to the respiratory delivery platform contingent consideration are included as a component of other operating assets and liabilities, net within net cash from operating activities. Capital Resources Our cash and cash equivalents totaled $844.4 million at December 31, 2020, and the majority of these funds are held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries. The Company anticipates having sufficient liquidity, including existing borrowing capacity under the Revolving Facility, Commercial Paper Program and the Receivables Facility and the Note Securitization Facility combined with cash to be generated from operations, to fund foreseeable cash needs without requiring the repatriation of non-U.S. cash. The Company has access to $4.00 billion under the Revolving Facility which matures in November 2023. Up to $1.65 billion of the Revolving Facility may be used to support borrowings under our Commercial Paper Program. 68 In addition to the Revolving Facility, Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, has access to $400 million under the Receivables Facility, which expires in April 2022. As of December 31, 2020, the Company had $248.4 million outstanding under the Receivables Facility. In August 2020, the Company entered into the Note Securitization Facility for borrowings up to $200 million. Under the terms of each of the Receivables Facility and Note Securitization Facility, certain of our accounts receivable secure the amounts borrowed and cannot be used to pay our other debts or liabilities. The amount that we may borrow at a given point in time is determined based on the amount of qualifying accounts receivable that are present at such point in time. Borrowings outstanding under the Receivables Facility bear interest at a commercial paper rate plus 0.925% and under the Note Securitization Facility at a rate per annum quoted from time to time by MUFG Bank, Ltd. plus 1.00% and are included as a component of short-term borrowings, while the accounts receivable securing these obligations remain as a component of accounts receivable, net, in our consolidated balance sheets. In addition, the agreements governing the Receivables Facility and Note Securitization Facility contain various customary affirmative and negative covenants, and customary default and termination provisions. We have entered into accounts receivable factoring agreements with financial institutions to sell certain of our non-U.S. accounts receivable. These transactions are accounted for as sales and result in a reduction in accounts receivable because the agreements transfer effective control over and risk related to the receivables to the buyers. Our factoring agreements do not allow for recourse in the event of uncollectibility, and we do not retain any interest in the underlying accounts receivable once sold. We derecognized $153.0 million and $90.1 million of accounts receivable as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 under these factoring arrangements, respectively. At December 31, 2020, our long-term debt, including the current portion, totaled $24.69 billion, as compared to $12.67 billion at December 31, 2019. Total long-term debt is calculated net of deferred financing fees which were $49.2 million and $60.5 million at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. For additional information regarding our debt and debt agreements refer to Note 10 Debt in Part II. Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Long-term Debt Maturity Mandatory minimum repayments remaining on the outstanding notional amount of long-term debt at December 31, 2020 was as follows for each of the periods ending December 31: The Company’s Revolving Facility contains customary affirmative covenants for facilities of this type, including among others, covenants pertaining to the delivery of financial statements, notices of default and certain material events, maintenance of corporate existence and rights, property, and insurance and compliance with laws, as well as customary negative covenants for facilities of this type, including limitations on the incurrence of subsidiary indebtedness, liens, mergers and certain other fundamental changes, investments and loans, acquisitions, transactions with affiliates, payments of dividends and other restricted payments and changes in our lines of business. The Revolving Facility contains a maximum consolidated leverage ratio financial covenant requiring maintenance of a maximum ratio of consolidated total indebtedness as of the end of any quarter to consolidated EBITDA for the trailing four quarters as defined in the related credit agreement (“maximum leverage ratio”). 69 The maximum leverage ratio is 4.25 to 1.00 for the first four full fiscal quarters following the close of the Combination and 3.75 to 1.00 thereafter, except in circumstances as defined in the related credit agreement. The Company is in compliance at December 31, 2020 and expects to remain in compliance for the next twelve months. Supplemental Guarantor Financial Information Subsequent to the Combination, Utah Acquisition Sub Inc. is the issuer of the 3.150% Senior Notes due 2021, 3.950% Senior Notes due 2026 and 5.250% Senior Notes due 2046 (collectively, the “Utah Senior Notes”), which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by Mylan Inc., Viatris Inc. and Mylan II B.V. Mylan Inc. is the issuer of the 4.200% Senior Notes due 2023, 4.550% Senior Notes due 2028, 5.400% Senior Notes due 2043 and 5.200% Senior Notes due 2048 (collectively, the “Mylan Inc. Senior Notes” and, together with the Utah Senior Notes, the “Senior Notes”), which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by Mylan II B.V., Viatris Inc. and Utah Acquisition Sub Inc. The respective obligations of Viatris Inc., Mylan Inc., Utah Acquisition Sub Inc., and Mylan II B.V. as guarantors of the Senior Notes, as applicable, are senior unsecured obligations of the applicable guarantor and rank pari passu in right of payment with all of such guarantor’s existing and future senior unsecured obligations that are not expressly subordinated to such guarantor’s guarantee of the applicable series of Senior Notes, rank senior in right of payment to any future obligations of such guarantor that are expressly subordinated to such guarantor’s guarantee of the applicable series of Senior Notes, and are effectively subordinated to such guarantor’s existing and future secured obligations to the extent of the value of the collateral securing such obligations. The respective obligations of Viatris Inc., Mylan Inc., Utah Acquisition Sub Inc., and Mylan II B.V. as guarantors of the Senior Notes, as applicable, are structurally subordinated to all of the existing and future liabilities, including trade payables, of the existing and future subsidiaries of such guarantor that do not guarantee the applicable series of Senior Notes. The guarantees by Viatris Inc., Mylan Inc. and Mylan II B.V. of the Utah Senior Notes will terminate under the following customary circumstances: (1) a sale or disposition of Mylan Inc. in a transaction that complies with the applicable indenture such that Mylan Inc. ceases to be a subsidiary of Viatris Inc.; (2) legal defeasance or covenant defeasance, each as described in the applicable indenture, or if Utah Acquisition Sub Inc.’s obligations under the applicable indenture are discharged; or (3) the earlier to occur of (i) the release of their respective guarantees under all applicable Mylan Inc. debt and (ii) Mylan Inc. no longer having any obligations in respect of any Mylan Inc. debt. The guarantee obligations of Viatris Inc., Mylan Inc., Utah Acquisition Sub Inc., and Mylan II B.V. under the Senior Notes are subject to certain limitations and terms similar to those applicable to other guarantees of similar instruments, including that (i) the guarantees are subject to fraudulent transfer and conveyance laws and (ii) each guarantee is limited in amount to an amount not to exceed the maximum amount that can be guaranteed by the applicable guarantor without rendering the guarantee, as it relates to such guarantor, voidable under applicable fraudulent transfer and conveyance laws or similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally. The following table presents unaudited summarized financial information of Viatris Inc., Mylan Inc., Utah Acquisition Sub Inc., and Mylan II B.V. on a combined basis as of and for the year ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. All intercompany balances have been eliminated in consolidation. This unaudited combined summarized financial information is presented utilizing the equity method of accounting. 70 Other Commitments The Company is involved in various disputes, governmental and/or regulatory inquiries, investigations and proceedings, tax proceedings and litigation matters, both in the U.S. and abroad, that arise from time to time, some of which could result in losses, including damages, fines and/or civil penalties, and/or criminal charges against the Company. These matters are often complex and have outcomes that are difficult to predict. We have approximately $343 million accrued for legal contingencies at December 31, 2020. While the Company believes that it has meritorious defenses with respect to the claims asserted against it and the assumed legal matters referenced above, and intends to vigorously defend its position, the process of resolving these matters is inherently uncertain and may develop over a long period of time, and so it is not possible to predict the ultimate resolution of any such matter. It is possible that an unfavorable resolution of any of the ongoing matters could have a material effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. In conjunction with the Combination, Viatris entered into a TSA with Pfizer pursuant to which each party will provide certain limited transition services to the other party generally for an initial period of 24 months from closing date. In addition to the monthly service fees under the TSA, Viatris has agreed to reimburse Pfizer for fifty percent of the costs, up to the first $380 million incurred, to establish and wind down the TSA services. Viatris will be required to fully reimburse Pfizer for total costs in excess of $380 million. Through the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company has incurred $53.1 million related to this provision of the TSA. We are continuously evaluating the potential acquisition of products, as well as companies, as a strategic part of our future growth. Consequently, we may utilize current cash reserves or incur additional indebtedness to finance any such acquisitions, which could impact future liquidity. In addition, on an ongoing basis, we review our operations including the evaluation of potential divestitures of products and businesses as part of our future strategy. Any divestitures could impact future liquidity. 71 Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2020 and the effect that such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods: ____________ (1) Scheduled interest payments represent the estimated interest payments related to our outstanding borrowings under senior notes and other long-term debt. Variable debt interest payments are estimated using current interest rates. (2) Other commitments include funding commitments related to the Company’s clean energy investments, agreements to purchase third-party manufactured products, open purchase orders, transition tax and estimated post-employment payments at December 31, 2020. Due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing of future payments, if any, the following contingent payments have not been included in the table above. We are contractually obligated to make potential future development, regulatory and commercial milestone, royalty and/or profit sharing payments in conjunction with acquisitions we have entered into with third parties. The most significant of these relates to the potential future consideration related to the acquisition of the exclusive worldwide rights to develop, manufacture and commercialize a generic equivalent to GlaxoSmithKline’s Advair® Diskus incorporating Pfizer’s respiratory delivery platform. These payments are contingent upon the occurrence of certain future events and, given the nature of these events, it is unclear when we may be required to pay such amounts. The amount of the contingent consideration liabilities was $223.6 million at December 31, 2020. In addition, the Company expects to incur approximately $8 million to $10 million of non-cash accretion expense related to the increase in the net present value of the contingent consideration liabilities in 2021. With respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2020, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authority. As such, $391.1 million of unrecognized tax benefits have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. In the normal course of business, Viatris periodically enters into employment, legal settlement and other agreements which incorporate indemnification provisions. While the maximum amount to which Viatris may be exposed under such agreements cannot be reasonably estimated, the Company maintains insurance coverage, which management believes will effectively mitigate the Company’s obligations under these indemnification provisions. No amounts have been recorded in the consolidated financial statements with respect to the Company’s obligations under such agreements. We have entered into employment and other agreements with certain executives and other employees that provide for compensation and certain other benefits. These agreements provide for severance payments under certain circumstances. Collaboration and Licensing Agreements We periodically enter into collaboration and licensing agreements with other pharmaceutical companies for the development, manufacture, marketing and/or sale of pharmaceutical products. Our significant collaboration agreements are primarily focused on the development, manufacturing, supply and commercialization of multiple, high-value generic biologic compounds, insulin analog products and respiratory products, among other complex products. Under these agreements, we have future potential milestone payments and co-development expenses payable to third parties as part of our licensing, development and co-development programs. Payments under these agreements generally become due and are payable upon the satisfaction or achievement of certain developmental, regulatory or commercial milestones or as development expenses are incurred on defined projects. Milestone payment obligations are uncertain, including the prediction of timing and the occurrence of events triggering a future obligation and are not reflected as liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets, except obligations reflected as acquisition related contingent consideration. Refer to Note 9 Financial Instruments and Risk Management included in Part II. Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further discussion of contingent consideration. Our potential maximum development milestones 72 not accrued for at December 31, 2020 totaled approximately $380 million. We estimate that the amounts that may be paid in the next twelve months to be approximately $40 million. These agreements may also include potential sales-based milestones and call for us to pay a percentage of amounts earned from the sale of the product as a royalty or a profit share. The amounts disclosed do not include sales-based milestones or royalty or profit share obligations on future sales of product as the timing and amount of future sales levels and costs to produce products subject to these obligations is not reasonably estimable. These sales-based milestones or royalty or profit share obligations may be significant depending upon the level of commercial sales for each product. The Company’s significant collaboration and licensing agreements include those with Revance, Momenta, Theravance Biopharma, Biocon and FKB. Refer to Note 18 Collaboration and Licensing Agreements included in Part II. Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information related to our collaborations. Application of Critical Accounting Policies Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies included in Part II. Item 8 of this Form 10-K and are in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Included within these policies are certain policies which contain critical accounting estimates and, therefore, have been deemed to be “critical accounting policies.” Critical accounting estimates are those which require management to make assumptions about matters that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made and for which the use of different estimates, which reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period could have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. We have identified the following to be our critical accounting policies: the determination of net revenue provisions, acquisitions, intangible assets, goodwill and contingent consideration, income taxes and the impact of existing legal matters. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenues in accordance with ASC 606. Under ASC 606, the Company recognizes net revenue for product sales when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. Revenues are recorded net of provisions for variable consideration, including discounts, rebates, governmental rebate programs, price adjustments, returns, chargebacks, promotional programs and other sales allowances. Accruals for these provisions are presented in the consolidated financial statements as reductions in determining net sales and as a contra asset in accounts receivable, net (if settled via credit) and other current liabilities (if paid in cash). Amounts recorded for revenue deductions can result from a complex series of judgements about future events and uncertainties and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. As such, they have been identified as critical accounting estimates. The following section briefly describes the nature of our provisions for variable consideration and how such provisions are estimated: • Chargebacks : the Company has agreements with certain indirect customers, such as independent pharmacies, retail pharmacy chains, managed care organizations, hospitals, nursing homes, governmental agencies and pharmacy benefit managers, which establish contract prices for certain products. The indirect customers then independently select a wholesaler from which to purchase the products at these contracted prices. Alternatively, certain wholesalers may enter into agreements with indirect customers that establish contract pricing for certain products, which the wholesalers provide. Under either arrangement, Viatris will provide credit to the wholesaler for any difference between the contracted price with the indirect party and the wholesaler’s invoice price. Such credits are called chargebacks. The provision for chargebacks is based on expected sell-through levels by our wholesaler customers to indirect customers, as well as estimated wholesaler inventory levels. We continually monitor our provision for chargebacks and evaluate our reserve and estimates as additional information becomes available. A change of 5% would have an effect on our reserve balance of approximately $29.3 million. • Rebates, promotional programs and other sales allowances : this category includes rebate and other programs to assist in product sales. These programs generally provide that the customer receives credit directly related to the amount of purchases or credits upon the attainment of pre-established volumes. Also included in this category are prompt pay discounts, administrative fees and price adjustments to reflect decreases in the selling prices of products. A change of 5% would have an effect on our reserve balance of approximately $78.8 million. • Returns : consistent with industry practice, Viatris maintains a return policy that allows customers to return a product, which varies country by country in accordance with local practices, generally within a specified period prior (six months) and subsequent (twelve months) to the expiration date. The Company’s estimate of the provision for returns is generally based upon historical experience with actual returns. Generally, returned products are destroyed and 73 customers are refunded the sales price in the form of a credit. A change of 5% would have an effect on our reserve balance of approximately $27.0 million. • Governmental rebate programs : government reimbursement programs in the U.S. include Medicare, Medicaid, and State Pharmacy Assistance Programs established according to statute, regulations and policy. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products that are covered by the Medicaid program are required to pay rebates to each state based on a statutory formula set forth in the Social Security Act. Medicare beneficiaries are eligible to obtain discounted prescription drug coverage from private sector providers. In addition, certain states have also implemented supplemental rebate programs that obligate manufacturers to pay rebates in excess of those required under federal law. Our estimate of these rebates is based on the historical trends of rebates paid as well as on changes in wholesaler inventory levels and increases or decreases in the level of sales. We estimate discounts on branded prescription drug sales to Medicare Part D participants in the Medicare “coverage gap” based on historical experience of prescriptions and utilization expected to result in the discount of the “coverage gap”. Outside the U.S. the majority of our pharmaceutical sales are contractually or legislatively governed. In certain European countries, certain rebates are calculated on the governments total pharmaceutical spending or on specific product sale thresholds. We utilize historical data and obtain third party information to determine the adequacy of these accruals. Also, this provision includes price reductions that are mandated by law outside of the U.S. A change of 5% would have an effect on our reserve balance of approximately $15.7 million. The following is a rollforward of the categories of variable consideration during 2020: Accruals for these provisions are presented in the consolidated financial statements as reductions in determining net revenues and in accounts receivable and other current liabilities. Accounts receivable are presented net of allowances relating to these provisions, which were comprised of the following at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively: We have not made and do not anticipate making any significant changes to the methodologies that we use to measure provisions for variable consideration; however, the balances within these reserves can fluctuate significantly through the consistent application of our methodologies. Historically, we have not recorded in any current period any material amounts related to adjustments made to prior period reserves. 74 Acquisitions, Intangible Assets, Goodwill and Contingent Consideration The Company accounts for acquired businesses using the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with the provisions of ASC 805, which requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective estimated fair values. The cost to acquire businesses is allocated to the underlying net assets of the acquired business based on estimates of their respective fair values. Amounts allocated to acquired IPR&D are capitalized at the date of acquisition and, at that time, such IPR&D assets have indefinite lives. As products in development are approved for sale, amounts are allocated to product rights and licenses and will be amortized over their estimated useful lives. Finite-lived intangible assets are amortized over the expected life of the asset. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Refer to Note 4 Acquisitions and Other Transactions included in Part II. Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further additional information regarding the Company’s acquisitions, including the acquisition accounting related to the Combination. Purchases of developed products and licenses that are accounted for as asset acquisitions are capitalized as intangible assets and amortized over an estimated useful life. IPR&D assets acquired as part of an asset acquisition are expensed immediately if they have no alternative future uses. The judgments made in determining the estimated fair value assigned to each class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, can materially impact our results of operations. Fair values and useful lives are determined based on, among other factors, the expected future period of benefit of the asset, the various characteristics of the asset and projected cash flows. Because this process involves management making estimates with respect to future sales volumes, pricing, new product launches, government reform actions, anticipated cost environment and overall market conditions, and because these estimates form the basis for the determination of whether or not an impairment charge should be recorded, these estimates are considered to be critical accounting estimates. The Company records contingent consideration resulting from business acquisitions at its estimated fair value on the acquisition date. Each reporting period thereafter, the Company revalues these obligations and records increases or decreases in their fair value as adjustments to litigation settlements and other contingencies, net within the consolidated statements of operations. Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration obligations can result from adjustments to the discount rates, payment periods and adjustments in the probability of achieving future development steps, regulatory approvals, market launches, sales targets and profitability. These fair value measurements represent Level 3 measurements as they are based on significant inputs not observable in the market. Significant judgment is employed in determining the assumptions utilized as of the acquisition date and for each subsequent measurement period. Accordingly, changes in the assumptions described above could have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. The Company reviews goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable based on management’s assessment of the fair value of the Company’s reporting units as compared to their related carrying value. Under the authoritative guidance issued by the FASB, we have the option to first assess the qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test. If we choose to use qualitative factors and determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then the goodwill impairment test would be required. The goodwill impairment test requires the Company to estimate the fair value of the reporting unit and to compare the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount is less than its fair value, then no impairment is recognized. If the carrying amount recorded exceeds the fair value calculated, an impairment charge is recorded for the difference. The judgments made in determining the projected cash flows used to estimate the fair value can materially impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Mylan historically performed its annual goodwill impairment test on April 1st. As a result of the decline in the Mylan’s share price during the first quarter of 2020, and the general uncertainty and volatility in the economic environments in which the Company operates, including the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company performed an interim goodwill impairment test as of March 31, 2020 and its annual goodwill impairment test as of April 1, 2020. Mylan performed both the interim and annual goodwill impairment tests on a quantitative basis for its four reporting units, North America Generics, North America Brands, Europe and Rest of World. In estimating each reporting unit’s fair value, Mylan performed an extensive valuation analysis, utilizing both income and market-based approaches, except for the North America Brands reporting unit where the fair value was estimated utilizing the income approach. The determination of 75 the fair value of the reporting units requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reporting unit’s expected future cash flows. These estimates and assumptions, utilizing Level 3 inputs, primarily include, but are not limited to, market multiples, control premiums, the discount rate, terminal growth rates, operating income before depreciation and amortization, and capital expenditures forecasts. The following describes the valuation methodologies used to derive the estimated fair value of the reporting units. Income Approach : Under this approach, to determine fair value, we discounted the expected future cash flows of each reporting unit. We used a discount rate, which reflected the overall level of inherent risk and the rate of return an outside investor would have expected to earn. To estimate cash flows beyond the final year of our model, we used a terminal value approach. Under this approach, we used EBITDA in the final year of our model, adjusted to estimate a normalized cash flow, applied a perpetuity growth assumption, and discounted by a perpetuity discount factor to determine the terminal value. We incorporated the present value of the resulting terminal value into our estimate of fair value. Market-Based Approach : The Company also utilizes a market-based approach to estimate fair value, principally utilizing the guideline company method which focuses on comparing our risk profile and growth prospects to a select group of publicly traded companies with reasonably similar guidelines. As of March 31, 2020 and April 1, 2020, the allocation of goodwill among the reporting units was as follows: North America Generics $2.60 billion, North America Brands $0.65 billion, Europe $4.43 billion and Rest of World $1.65 billion. As of March 31, 2020 and April 1, 2020, Mylan determined that the fair value of the North America Generics, North America Brands and Rest of World reporting units was substantially in excess of the respective unit’s carrying value. However, when compared to the April 1, 2019 test, the fair value of the overall business declined because of future forecasts and the decline in share price. For the Europe reporting unit, the estimated fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately $1.2 billion or 11.0% for both the interim and annual goodwill impairment test. As it relates to the income approach for the Europe reporting unit at March 31, 2020 and April 1, 2020, the Company forecasted cash flows for the next 5 years. During the forecast period, the revenue compound annual growth rate was approximately 7.5%. A terminal year value was calculated with a 2.0% revenue growth rate applied. The discount rate utilized was 11.0% and the estimated tax rate was 25.5%. Under the market-based approach, we utilized an estimated range of market multiples of 8.0 to 9.5 times EBITDA plus a control premium of 15.0%. If all other assumptions are held constant, a reduction in the terminal value growth rate by 3.5% or an increase in discount rate by 3.5% would result in an impairment charge for the Europe reporting unit. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, actual results could differ from those estimates. In addition, changes in underlying assumptions, especially as it relates to the key assumptions detailed, could have a significant impact on the fair value of the reporting units. As a result of the Combination and the integration of our portfolio across our regions, the Company changed its reportable segments. The Company now has four reportable segments on a geographic basis, Developed Markets, Greater China, JANZ and Emerging Markets. Subsequent to the change in segments, our reporting units for allocating and evaluating Goodwill impairment will be North America, Europe, Greater China, JANZ and Emerging Markets. The carrying values of long-lived assets, which include property, plant and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives, are evaluated periodically in relation to the expected future undiscounted cash flows of the underlying assets and monitored for other potential triggering events. We have assessed the recoverability of certain long-lived assets, principally finite-lived intangible assets, contained within the reporting units whenever certain impairment indicators are present. Any impairment of these assets must be considered prior to our impairment review of goodwill. The assessment for impairment is based on our ability to recover the carrying value of the long-lived assets or asset grouping by analyzing the expected future undiscounted pre-tax cash flows specific to the asset or asset grouping. If the carrying amount is greater than the undiscounted cash flows, the Company recognizes an impairment loss for the excess of the carrying amount over the estimated fair value based on discounted cash flows. Significant management judgment is involved in estimating the recoverability of these assets and is dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions used in making these estimates, as well as how the estimates compare to the eventual future operating performance of the specific asset or asset grouping. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, the Company recorded $45.0 million, $42.3 million, and $106.3 million, respectively, of impairment charges for finite-lived intangible assets, which were recorded as a component of amortization expense. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company’s finite-lived intangible assets totaled $29.68 billion and $11.53 billion, respectively. Changes to any of the 76 Company’s assumptions related to the estimated fair value based on the discounted cash flows, including discount rates or the competitive environment related to the assets, could lead to future material impairment charges. Any future long-lived assets impairment charges could have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s indefinite-lived intangible assets, principally IPR&D, are tested at least annually for impairment or upon the occurrence of a triggering event. The impairment test for IPR&D consists of a comparison of the asset’s fair value with its carrying value. Impairment is determined to exist when the fair value of IPR&D assets, which is based upon updated forecasts and commercial development plans, is less than the carrying value of the assets being tested. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, the Company recorded $37.4 million, $138.3 million, and $117.7 million, respectively, of impairment charges, which were recorded as a component of amortization expense. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company’s IPR&D assets totaled $80.7 million and $120.3 million, respectively. The fair value of both IPR&D and finite-lived intangible assets was determined based upon detailed valuations employing the income approach which utilized Level 3 inputs, as defined in Note 9 Financial Instruments and Risk Management included in Part II. Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Changes to any of the Company’s assumptions including changes to or abandonment of development programs, regulatory timelines, discount rates or the competitive environment related to the assets could lead to future material impairment charges. Income Taxes We compute our income taxes based on the statutory tax rates and tax reliefs available to Viatris in the various jurisdictions in which we generate income. Significant judgment is required in determining our income taxes and in evaluating our tax positions. We establish reserves in accordance with Viatris’ policy regarding accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. Our policy provides that the tax effects from an uncertain tax position be recognized in Viatris’ financial statements, only if the position is more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, based on the technical merits of the position. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the settlement of a tax audit. Our provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves. Favorable resolution would be recognized as a reduction to our provision for income taxes in the period of resolution or expiration of the underlying statutes of limitation. Based on this evaluation, as of December 31, 2020, our reserve for unrecognized tax benefits totaled  $391.1 million, of which $264.0 million was recorded in connection with the Combination and is subject to Pfizer’s indemnification obligations to Viatris under the Tax Matters Agreement. Management assesses the available positive and negative evidence to estimate if sufficient future taxable income will be generated to utilize the existing deferred tax assets. A significant piece of objective negative evidence evaluated was the cumulative loss incurred in certain taxing jurisdictions over the three-year period ended December 31, 2020. Such objective evidence limits the ability to consider other subjective evidence such as our projections for future growth. Based on this evaluation and other factors, as of December 31, 2020, a valuation allowance of $443.6 million has been recorded in order to measure only the portion of the deferred tax asset that more likely than not will be realized. The amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable, however, could be adjusted if estimates of future taxable income during the carryforward period are reduced or if objective negative evidence in the form of cumulative losses is no longer present and additional weight may be given to subjective evidence such as projections for growth. When assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers all available evidence, including historical information, long-term forecasts of future taxable income and possible tax planning strategies. Amounts recorded for valuation allowances can result from a complex series of estimates, assumptions and judgments about future events. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, assumptions and judgments, actual results could differ materially. Any future increases to the Company’s valuation allowances could materially impact the Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company’s net deferred tax assets totaled $2.15 billion and $703.1 million, respectively. A variance of 5% between estimated reserves and valuation allowances and actual resolution and realization of these tax items would have an effect on our reserve balance and valuation allowance of approximately $41.8 million. Legal Matters Viatris is involved in various legal proceedings, some of which involve claims for substantial amounts. An estimate is made to accrue for a loss contingency relating to any of these legal proceedings if it is probable that a liability was incurred as of the date of the financial statements and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Because of the subjective nature inherent in assessing the outcome of litigation and because of the potential that an adverse outcome in a legal proceeding could 77 have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price, such estimates are considered to be critical accounting estimates. A variance of 5% between estimated and recorded litigation reserves and actual resolution of certain legal matters would have an effect on our litigation reserve balance of approximately $17.2 million. Refer to Note 19 Litigation included in Part II. Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further discussion of litigation matters. Impact of Currency Fluctuations and Inflation Because our results are reported in U.S. Dollars, changes in the rate of exchange between the U.S. Dollar and the local currencies in the markets in which we operate, mainly the Euro, Indian Rupee, Chinese Renminbi, Japanese Yen, Australian Dollar, Canadian Dollar, Pound Sterling and South Korean Won affect our results as previously noted. We do not believe that inflation has had a material impact on our revenues or operations in any of the past three years. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Part II. Item 8 of this Form 10-K for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted.