********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Investing in our securities involves risk. In addition to the other information contained in this report, you should consider the following risk factors before investing in our securities. Risks Related to Our Industry Our businesses operate in highly competitive industries . The entertainment and media programming industries in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete with other programming networks for distribution, viewers and advertising. We face increased competition from subscription based streaming services and DTC offerings, including our recently launched discovery+ product, and we also compete for viewers with other forms of media entertainment, such as home video, movies, periodicals, on-line and mobile activities. In particular, websites and search engines have seen significant advertising growth, a portion of which has moved from traditional cable network and satellite advertisers. Businesses, including ours, that offer multiple services, or that may be vertically integrated and offer both video distribution and programming content, may face closer regulatory review from the competition authorities in the countries in which we currently have operations. If our distributors have to pay higher rates to holders of sports broadcasting rights, it might be difficult for us to negotiate higher rates for distribution of our networks. The ability of our businesses to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including our ability to consistently supply high quality and popular content, access our niche viewership with appealing category-specific content, adapt to new technologies and distribution platforms and achieve widespread distribution. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors, or that increasing competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The success of our business depends on the acceptance of our entertainment and sports content by our U.S. and foreign viewers, which may be unpredictable and volatile . The production and distribution of entertainment and sports content are inherently risky businesses because the revenue we derive and our ability to distribute our content depend primarily on consumer tastes and preferences that often change in unpredictable ways. Our success depends on our ability to consistently create and acquire content that meets the changing preferences of viewers in general, in special interest groups, in specific demographic categories and in various international marketplaces. As the home of the Olympic Games in Europe until 2024, we have been developing and innovating new forms of content in connection with the Olympic Games. Our success with the Olympics depends on audience acceptance of this content. If viewers do not find our Olympic Games content acceptable, we could see low viewership, which could lead to low distribution and advertising revenues. The success of our partnership with the PGA Tour, which runs through 2031, is similarly dependent on audience acceptance and viewership. Failing to gain the level of audience acceptance we expect for the PGA Tour content may negatively impact our distribution and advertising revenues over the period of the partnership. The commercial success of our content also depends upon the quality and acceptance of competing content available in the applicable marketplace. Other factors, including the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions, piracy, and growing competition for consumer discretionary spending may also affect the audience for our content. Audience sizes for our media networks are critical factors affecting both the volume and pricing of advertising revenue that we receive, and the extent of distribution and the license fees we receive under agreements with our distributors. Consequently, reduced public acceptance of our entertainment content may decrease our audience share and adversely affect our results of operations. There has been a shift in consumer behavior as a result of technological innovations and changes in the distribution of content, which may affect our viewership and the profitability of our business in unpredictable ways. Technology and business models in our industry continue to evolve rapidly. Changes to these business models include (a) the presence of streaming services, which are increasing in number and some of which have a significant and growing subscriber base, and (b) the increased video consumption through subscription steaming services and time-delayed or time-shifted viewing of television programming through on-demand services and DVRs. Consumer behavior related to changes in content distribution and technological innovation affect our economic model and viewership in ways that are not entirely predictable. 21 Consumers are increasingly viewing content on a time-delayed or on-demand basis from traditional distributors and from streaming services, connected apps and websites and on a wide variety of screens, such as televisions, tablets, mobile phones and other devices. Additionally, devices that allow users to view television programs on a time-shifted basis and technologies that enable users to fast-forward or skip programming, including commercials, such as DVRs and portable digital devices and systems that enable users to store or make portable copies of content may affect the attractiveness of our offerings to advertisers and could therefore adversely affect our revenues. There is increased demand for short-form, user-generated and interactive content, which have different economic models than our traditional content offerings. Likewise, distributors are offering smaller programming packages known as “skinny bundles,” which are delivered at a lower cost than traditional offerings and sometimes allow consumers to create a customized package of networks, that are gaining popularity among consumers. If our networks are not included in these packages or consumers favor alternative offerings, we may experience a decline in viewership and ultimately the demand for our programming, which could lead to lower distribution and advertising revenues. We have also seen declines in subscribers to the traditional cable bundle. In 2020, total U.S. Networks portfolio subscribers declined 5% while subscribers to our fully distributed networks declined 3%. In order to respond to changes in content distribution models in our industry, we have invested in, developed and launched DTC products including dplay, JOYN, MotorTrend and our new discovery+ product. There can be no assurance, however, that our viewers will respond to our DTC products or that our DTC strategy will be successful, particularly given the increase in DTC products on the market. Each distribution model has different risks and economic consequences for us, so the rapid evolution of consumer preferences may have an economic impact that is not ultimately predictable. Distribution windows are also evolving, potentially affecting revenues from other windows. If we cannot ensure that our distribution methods and content are responsive to our target audiences, our business could be adversely affected. If our new subscription streaming product, discovery+, fails to attract and retain subscribers, our business may be adversely impacted. In January 2021, Discovery launched an aggregated DTC product, discovery+. We have incurred and will likely continue to incur significant costs to develop and market discovery+ and there can be no assurance that consumers and advertisers will embrace our offering or that subscribers will activate or renew a subscription. Our discovery+ offering is a subscription-based streaming product. The subscription-based streaming service marketplace is crowded and competitive, and our success will also be largely dependent on our ability to initially attract, and to ultimately retain, subscribers. Competitors to discovery+ include traditional linear programming networks, including our own linear channels, and other subscription-based streaming services and DTC offerings. If we are unable to effectively market discovery+ or if consumers do not perceive the pricing and related features of discovery+ to be of value versus our competitors, we may not be able to attract and retain subscribers. Our ability to attract and retain subscribers to discovery+ will also depend in part on our ability to provide compelling content choices that are differentiated from that of our competitors and that are more attractive than other sources of entertainment that consumers could choose in their free time. Furthermore, our ability to provide a quality subscriber experience and our relative service levels, may also impact our ability to attract and retain subscribers. If we are unable to attract and retain subscribers to discovery+, our business could be adversely affected. Consolidation among cable and satellite providers, both domestically and internationally, could have an adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. Consolidation among cable and satellite operators has given the largest operators considerable leverage in their relationships with programmers, including us. In the U.S., approximately 95% of our distribution revenues come from the top 10 distributors. We currently have agreements in place with the major cable and satellite operators in U.S. Networks and International Networks which expire at various times through 2023. Some of our largest distributors have combined, and as a result, have gained, or may gain, market power, which could affect our ability to maximize the value of our content through those platforms. In addition, many of the countries and territories in which we distribute our networks also have a small number of dominant distributors. Continued consolidation within the industry could reduce the number of distributors to carry our programming, subject our affiliate fee revenue to greater volume discounts, and further increase the negotiating leverage of the cable and satellite television system operators which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Failure to renew, renewal with less favorable terms, or termination of our distribution agreements may cause a decline in our revenue. Because our networks are licensed on a wholesale basis to distributors, such as cable and satellite operators, which in turn distribute them to consumers, we are dependent upon the maintenance of distribution agreements with these operators. These distribution agreements generally provide for the level of carriage our networks will receive, such as channel placement and programming package inclusion (widely distributed, broader programming packages compared to lesser distributed, specialized programming packages) and for payment of a license fee to us based on the number of subscribers that receive our networks. 22 While the number of subscribers associated with our networks impacts our ability to generate advertising revenue, these per subscriber payments also represent a significant portion of our revenue. Our distribution agreements generally have a limited term which varies by market and distributor, and there can be no assurance that these distribution agreements will be renewed in the future or that they will be renewed on terms that are favorable to us. A reduction in the license fees that we receive per subscriber or in the number of subscribers for which we are paid, including as a result of a loss or reduction in carriage for our networks, could adversely affect our distribution revenue. Such a loss or reduction in carriage could also decrease the potential audience for our programs thereby adversely affecting our advertising revenue. In addition, our distribution agreements are complex and individually negotiated. If we were to disagree with one of our counterparties on the interpretation of a distribution agreement, our relationship with that counterparty could be damaged and our business could be negatively affected. Interpretation of some terms of our distribution agreements may have an adverse effect on the distribution payments we receive under those agreements. Some of our distribution agreements contain “most favored nation” clauses. These clauses typically provide that if we enter into an agreement with another distributor which contains certain more favorable terms, we must offer some of those terms to our existing distributors. We have entered into a number of distribution agreements with terms that differ in some respects from those contained in other agreements. While we believe that we have appropriately complied with the most favored nation clauses included in our distribution agreements, these agreements are complex and other parties could reach a different conclusion that, if correct, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We face cybersecurity and similar risks, which could result in the disclosure of confidential information, disruption of our programming services, damage to our brands and reputation, legal exposure and financial losses. We and our partners rely on various technology systems in connection with the production, distribution and broadcast of our programming, and our on-line, mobile and app offerings, as well as our internal systems, involve the storage and transmission of personal and proprietary information. From time to time, hackers target Discovery and our service providers, and our service providers’ systems may be breached due to employee error, malicious code, hacking and phishing attacks, or otherwise. Any such breach or unauthorized access could result in a loss of our proprietary information, which may include user data, a disruption of our services or a reduction of the revenues we are able to generate from such services, damage to our brands and reputation, a loss of confidence in the security of our offerings and services, and significant legal and financial exposure, each of which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. Additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or users to disclose sensitive or confidential information in order to gain access to data and systems. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures, notwithstanding our ongoing efforts to develop and implement robust data security tools, practices, and protocols. We may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate us for losses associated with cybersecurity and privacy events. In addition, we face regulatory risk associated with the acquisition, storage, disclosure, use and protection of personal data, including under the E.U. GDPR, the CCPA, and various other domestic and international privacy and data security laws and regulations, which are continually evolving. These evolving data protection laws may require us to expend significant resources to implement additional data protection measures, and our actual or alleged failure to comply with such laws could result in legal claims, regulatory enforcement actions and significant fines and penalties. Risks Related to the COVID-19 Pandemic The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted, and is expected to continue to disrupt our business operations and poses risks to our business, results of operations and financial position, the nature and extent of which are highly uncertain, rapidly changing and unpredictable. The continuing global spread of the coronavirus disease 2019, commonly called “COVID-19,” has created significant worldwide operational volatility, uncertainty and disruption. Countries throughout the world have imposed stringent restrictions on social and commercial activity in an effort to slow the spread of the illness. These restrictions vary by location and have had a significant adverse impact upon many sectors, including the media industry in which we operate. The extent of the impact to our business, customers, employees, vendors, and our distribution, advertising and production partners will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including new information that may emerge concerning the severity and the extent of future surges of COVID-19 and the actions to contain the virus or treat its impact, among others. Any negative effect on these third parties could materially adversely impact us. 23 In particular, our advertising revenues, which represented 52% of our consolidated revenues in 2020, may decrease significantly if our advertising partners in certain sectors (such as travel) continue to reduce their advertising spending, or if we are limited in our ability to create and air new content due to prolonged production shutdowns and delays. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused some of our advertisers to reduce their spending, and future declines in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general due to COVID-19 could continue to negatively impact their advertising expenditures in the future. We may continue to experience decreases in advertising revenues related to live sporting events, which have been cancelled or postponed due to the pandemic. For example, the International Olympic Committee and the Tokyo 2020 Organizing Committee agreed to postpone the 2020 Olympic Games to 2021. The postponement of the Olympic Games has delayed our expected Olympic-related revenue. Further, a prolonged, global recession due to COVID-19 may put pressure on household budgets and cause a decrease in consumer discretionary spending, which may decrease our subscriber numbers, distribution revenues and the rates we are able to charge for advertising. In addition, we continue to implement remote work arrangements in various geographic locations. While these arrangements have not materially affected our ability to maintain our business operations to date, these arrangements may adversely impact our business operations in the future. The extent to which COVID-19 will adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations will depend on numerous evolving factors, which are highly uncertain, rapidly changing and cannot be predicted, including: • the duration and scope of the outbreak, including the extent of future surges of the disease, vaccine distribution and other actions to contain the virus or treat its impact; • governmental, business and individual actions that have been and continue to be taken in response to the outbreak, including travel restrictions, quarantines, social distancing, work-at-home, stay-at-home and shelter-in-place orders and shut-downs; • the impact of the outbreak on the financial markets and economic activity generally; • the effect of the outbreak on our investments, customers, vendors and production partners; • the impact of the outbreak on the health, well-being and productivity of our employees and the potential for disruption to our ability to conduct our operations; and • the ability of our customers to pay for our services during and following the outbreak. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused substantial disruption in financial markets and economies worldwide, both of which could result in adverse effects on our business, operations, stock price and ability to raise capital. The COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted the global economy and created significant volatility and disruption in the credit and financial markets, and while some economic disruption may ease from time to time, such disruption is expected to continue and may worsen for an undetermined period of time. The pandemic and continued spread of COVID-19 has caused a global recession. There is a significant degree of uncertainty and lack of visibility as to the extent and duration of such slowdown or recession; however, a prolonged slowdown or recession may adversely affect our credit ratings, stock price, ability to access capital on favorable terms and ability to meet our liquidity needs. Our actions to limit the adverse effects of COVID-19 on our financial condition may not be successful, as the extent and duration of the adverse effects of the pandemic is not determinable and depends on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. Events resulting from the effects of COVID-19 may negatively impact our ability to comply with our financial covenants. Also, additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If adequate funding is not available, we may be required to reduce expenditures, including curtailing our growth strategies and reducing our product development efforts, or forego acquisition opportunities. Risks Related to our International Operations We are subject to risks related to our international operations. We have operations through which we distribute programming outside the United States. As a result, our business is subject to certain risks inherent in international business, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include: • laws and policies affecting trade and taxes, including laws and policies relating to the repatriation of funds and withholding taxes, and changes in these laws; • changes in local regulatory requirements, including restrictions on content, imposition of local content quotas and restrictions on foreign ownership; • differing degrees of protection for intellectual property and varying attitudes towards the piracy of intellectual property; 24 • significant fluctuations in foreign currency value; • currency exchange controls; • the instability of foreign economies and governments; • war and acts of terrorism; • anti-corruption laws and regulations such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act that impose stringent requirements on how we conduct our foreign operations and changes in these laws and regulations; • foreign privacy and data protection laws and regulation and changes in these laws; and • shifting consumer preferences regarding the viewing of video programming. Events or developments related to these and other risks associated with international trade could adversely affect our revenues from non-U.S. sources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects. Furthermore, some foreign markets where we and our partners operate may be more adversely affected by current economic conditions than the U.S. We also may incur substantial expense as a result of changes, including the imposition of new restrictions, in the existing economic or political environment in the regions where we do business. Acts of terrorism, hostilities, or financial, political, economic or other uncertainties could lead to a reduction in revenue or loss of investment, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Global economic conditions may have an adverse effect on our business. Our business is significantly affected by prevailing economic conditions and by disruptions to financial markets. We derive substantial revenues from advertisers, and these expenditures are sensitive to general economic conditions and consumer buying patterns. Financial instability or a general decline in economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries where our networks are distributed could adversely affect advertising rates and volume, resulting in a decrease in our advertising revenues. Decreases in consumer discretionary spending in the U.S. and other countries where our networks are distributed may affect cable television and other video service subscriptions, in particular with respect to digital service tiers on which certain of our programming networks are carried. This could lead to a decrease in the number of subscribers receiving our programming from multi-channel video programming distributors, which could have a negative impact on our viewing subscribers and distribution revenues. Similarly, a decrease in viewing subscribers would also have a negative impact on the number of viewers actually watching the programs on our programming networks, which could also impact the rates we are able to charge advertisers. Economic conditions affect a number of aspects of our businesses worldwide and impact the businesses of our partners who purchase advertising on our networks and might reduce their spending on advertising. Economic conditions can also negatively affect the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us. The general worsening of current global economic conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, and the worsening of economic conditions in certain parts of the world, specifically, could impact the expansion and success of our businesses in such areas. As a company that has operations in the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the E.U. could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial position. On January 31, 2020, the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) formally withdrew from the E.U., commonly referred to as “Brexit.”  The transition period, during which the pre-Brexit rights and obligations on trade, travel and business for the U.K. and the E.U. continued to apply, ended on December 31, 2020. As of January 1, 2021, the relationship between the U.K. and the E.U. is governed by the EU-UK Trade and Co-operation Agreement (“TCA”), which is effective provisionally pending ratification by the European Parliament. As a result of Brexit, the single market and country of origin principles which have facilitated our cross-border activities from the U.K. into the E.U. have ceased, which could have an adverse impact on our operations and business activities. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, costs, including due to reestablishment of broadcasting entities from the U.K. into the E.U., staff relocations and business travel, to minimize disruption to our businesses in the E.U. There remains potential legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which E.U. laws to replace and/or replicate. 25 The announcement and implementation of Brexit has caused significant volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations. With the expansion of our international operations, our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuation has increased. This increase in exposure could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and net asset balances, due, in part, to currency fluctuations impacting the British pound and the Euro. Brexit may also create global uncertainty, which may cause a decrease in consumer discretionary spending. Decreases in consumer discretionary spending may affect cable television and other video service subscriptions where our networks are distributed. A decrease in the number of subscribers receiving our programming could have a negative impact on our distribution revenues and the rates we are able to charge for advertising. In addition, different market requirements for advertising content may impact our advertising revenues. Any of the foregoing factors may adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial position. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our operating results and financial conditions. We have significant operations in a number of foreign jurisdictions and certain of our operations are conducted and certain of our debt obligations are denominated in foreign currencies. As a result, we have exposure to foreign currency risk as we enter into transactions and make investments denominated in multiple currencies. The value of these currencies fluctuates relative to the U.S. dollar. Our consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, and to prepare those financial statements we must translate the amounts of the assets, liabilities, net sales, other revenues and expenses of our operations outside of the U.S. from local currencies into U.S. dollars using exchange rates for the current period. As we have expanded our international operations, our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations has increased. This increased exposure could have an adverse effect on our reported results of operations and net asset balances. There is no assurance that downward trending currencies will rebound or that stable currencies will remain unchanged in any period or for any specific market. Increasing complexity of global tax policy and regulations could adversely impact our international business and results of operations. We continue to face the increasing complexity of operating a global business, as we are subject to tax policy and regulations in multiple non-U.S. jurisdictions. Many foreign jurisdictions are contemplating additional taxes and/or levies on media advertising, including the recently announced proposed levy on media companies under consideration by the Polish government. In addition, many foreign jurisdictions have increased scrutiny and have either changed, or plan to change, their international tax systems due to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development’s (“OECD”) Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (“BEPS”) recommendations. The BEPS recommendations call for enhanced transparency and reporting relating to companies’ entity structures and transfer pricing policies. These have been implemented through various initiatives including the requirement for taxpayers to comply with global country-by-country reporting and the filing of a global master file as well as the introduction of the multilateral instrument (“MLI”) which allows taxing authorities to better take aim at multinational tax avoidance. We continue to address and comply with these compliance and reporting requirements. Additional complexity has also arisen in state aid: state resources used to provide recipients an advantage on a selective basis that has or could distort competition and affect trade between European member states. In recent years the European Commission (“EC”) has increased their scrutiny on state aid and deviated from the historical E.U. state aid practices. There is great uncertainty about the future of E.U. state aid practices based on the appeals of many significant EC rulings against multinational corporations that are currently being challenged. The potential impact of these rulings is difficult to assess and our transfer pricing analyses conducted pursuant to accepted OECD methodologies may not sufficiently mitigate risk associated with our past or current agreements. In addition, the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation. Our income taxes could also be materially adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in worldwide tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles. In the U.S., President Biden put forth several corporate income tax proposals during his campaign, including a significant increase in the corporate income tax rate and changes in the taxation of non-U.S. income. While it is too early to predict the outcome of these proposals, if enacted, they would have a material impact on our income tax liability. 26 Risks Related to Our Business Model and Capital Structure We have a significant amount of debt and may incur significant amounts of additional debt, which could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to react to changes in our business. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately $15.4 billion of consolidated debt, of which $335 million is current. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay when due the principal of, interest on, or other amounts associated with our indebtedness. In addition, we have the ability to draw down our $2.5 billion revolving credit facility in the ordinary course, which would have the effect of increasing our indebtedness. We are also permitted, subject to certain restrictions under our existing indebtedness, to obtain additional long-term debt and working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs. This would have the effect of increasing our total leverage. Our substantial leverage could have significant negative consequences on our financial condition and results of operations, including: • impairing our ability to meet one or more of the financial ratio covenants contained in our revolving credit facility or to generate cash sufficient to pay interest or principal, which could result in an acceleration of some or all of our outstanding debt in the event that an uncured default occurs; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and market conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing; • requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for other purposes; • requiring us to sell debt or equity securities or to sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, to meet payment obligations; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we compete; and • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage with less leveraged competitors and competitors that may have better access to capital resources. Our ability to incur debt and the use of our funds could be limited by the restrictive covenants in the loan agreement for our revolving credit facility. The loan agreement for our revolving credit facility contains restrictive covenants, as well as requirements to comply with certain leverage and other financial maintenance tests. These covenants and requirements could limit our ability to take various actions, including incurring additional debt, guaranteeing indebtedness and engaging in various types of transactions, including mergers, acquisitions and sales of assets. These covenants could place us at a disadvantage compared to some of our competitors, who may have fewer restrictive covenants and may not be required to operate under these restrictions. Further, these covenants could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, mergers and acquisitions or other opportunities. Financial performance for our equity method investments and investments without readily determinable fair value may differ from current estimates. We have equity investments in several entities and the accounting treatment applied for these investments varies depending on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our percentage ownership and the level of influence or control we have over the relevant entity. Any losses experienced by these entities could adversely impact our results of operations and the value of our investment. In addition, if these entities were to fail and cease operations, we may lose the entire value of our investment and the stream of any shared profits. Some of our ventures may require additional uncommitted funding. We also have significant investments in entities that we have accounted for as investments without readily determinable fair value. If these entities experience significant losses or were to fail and cease operations, our investments could be subject to impairment and the loss of a part or all of our investment value. 27 As a holding company, we could be unable to obtain cash in amounts sufficient to meet our financial obligations or other commitments. Our ability to meet our financial obligations and other contractual commitments will depend upon our ability to access cash. We are a holding company, and our sources of cash include our available cash balances, net cash from the operating activities of our subsidiaries, any dividends and interest we may receive from our investments, availability under our credit facility or any credit facilities that we may obtain in the future and proceeds from any asset sales we may undertake in the future. The ability of our operating subsidiaries, including Discovery Communications, LLC, to pay dividends or to make other payments or advances to us will depend on their individual operating results and any statutory, regulatory or contractual restrictions, including restrictions under our credit facility, to which they may be or may become subject. Under the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, we were subject to U.S. taxes for the deemed repatriation of certain cash balances held by foreign corporations. The Company intends to continue to permanently reinvest these funds outside of the U.S., and current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate them to fund our U.S. operations. Risks Related to Corporate Structure We have directors in common with those of Liberty Media Corporation (“Liberty Media”), Liberty Global plc (“Liberty Global”), Qurate Retail Group f/k/a Liberty Interactive Corporation (“Qurate Retail”), Liberty Broadband Corporation ("Liberty Broadband"), and Liberty Latin America Ltd ("LLA"), which may result in the diversion of business opportunities or other potential conflicts. Liberty Media, Liberty Global, Qurate Retail, Liberty Broadband and LLA (together, the "Liberty Entities") own interests in various U.S. and international companies, such as Charter Communications, Inc. ("Charter"), that have subsidiaries that own or operate domestic or foreign content services that may compete with the content services we offer. We have no rights in respect of U.S. or international content opportunities developed by or presented to the subsidiaries of any Liberty Entities, and the pursuit of these opportunities by such subsidiaries may adversely affect our interests and those of our stockholders. Because we and the Liberty Entities have overlapping directors, the pursuit of business opportunities may serve to intensify the conflicts of interest or appearance of conflicts of interest faced by the respective management teams. Our charter provides that none of our directors or officers will be liable to us or any of our subsidiaries for breach of any fiduciary duty by reason of the fact that such individual directs a corporate opportunity to another person or entity (including any Liberty Entities), for which such individual serves as a director or officer, or does not refer or communicate information regarding such corporate opportunity to us or any of our subsidiaries, unless (a) such opportunity was expressly offered to such individual solely in his or her capacity as a director or officer of us or any of our subsidiaries and (b) such opportunity relates to a line of business in which we or any of our subsidiaries is then directly engaged. We have directors that are also related persons of Advance/Newhouse and that overlap with those of the Liberty Entities, which may lead to conflicting interests for those tasked with the fiduciary duties of our board. Our twelve-person board of directors includes three designees of Advance/Newhouse Programming Partnership ("Advance/Newhouse"), including Robert J. Miron, who was the Chairman of Advance/Newhouse until December 31, 2010, and Steven A. Miron, the Chief Executive Officer of Advance/Newhouse. In addition, our board of directors includes two persons who are currently members of the board of directors of Liberty Media, three persons who are currently members of the board of directors of Liberty Global, one person who is currently a member of the board of directors of Qurate Retail, two persons who are currently members of the board of directors of Liberty Broadband, one person who is currently a member of the board of directors of Charter, of which Liberty Broadband owns an equity interest, and two persons who are currently members of the board of directors of LLA. John C. Malone is the Chairman of the boards of all of the Liberty Entities other than LLA and Qurate Retail. The parent company of Advance/Newhouse and the Liberty Entities own interests in a range of media, communications and entertainment businesses. Advance/Newhouse will elect three directors annually for so long as it owns a specified minimum amount of our Series A-1 convertible preferred stock. The Advance/Newhouse Series A-1 convertible preferred stock, which votes with our common stock on all matters other than the election of directors, represents approximately 24% of the voting power of our outstanding shares. The Series A-1 convertible preferred stock also grants Advance/Newhouse consent rights over a range of our corporate actions, including fundamental changes to our business, the issuance of additional capital stock, mergers and business combinations and certain acquisitions and dispositions. 28 None of the Liberty Entities own any interest in us. Mr. Malone beneficially owns: shares of Liberty Media representing approximately 47% of the aggregate voting power of its outstanding stock, shares representing approximately 30% of the aggregate voting power of Liberty Global, shares representing approximately 40% of the aggregate voting power of Qurate Retail, shares representing approximately 48% of the aggregate voting power of Liberty Broadband and shares representing approximately 21% of the aggregate voting power (other than with respect to the election of the common stock directors) of our outstanding stock. Mr. Malone controls approximately 27% of our aggregate voting power relating to the election of our nine common stock directors, assuming that the preferred stock owned by Advance/Newhouse has not been converted into shares of our common stock. Our directors who are also directors of the Liberty Entities hold stock and stock-based compensation in the Liberty Entities and hold our stock and stock-based compensation. These ownership interests and/or business positions could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when these individuals are faced with decisions that could have different implications for us, Advance/Newhouse and/or the Liberty Entities. For example, there may be the potential for a conflict of interest when we, on the one hand, or Advance/Newhouse and/or one or more of the Liberty Entities, on the other hand, consider acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that may be suitable for the other. The members of our board of directors have fiduciary duties to us and our stockholders. Likewise, those persons who serve in similar capacities at Advance/Newhouse or a Liberty Entity have fiduciary duties to those companies. Therefore, such persons may have conflicts of interest or the appearance of conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving or affecting both respective companies, and there can be no assurance that the terms of any transactions will be as favorable to us or our subsidiaries as would be the case in the absence of a conflict of interest. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if such acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Certain provisions of our charter and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions include the following: • authorizing a capital structure with multiple series of common stock: a Series B that entitles the holders to ten votes per share, a Series A-1 that entitles the holders to one vote per share and a Series C that, except as otherwise required by applicable law, entitles the holders to no voting rights; • authorizing the Series A-1 convertible preferred stock with special voting rights, which prohibits us from taking any of the following actions, among others, without the prior approval of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of such stock: ◦ increasing the number of members of the Board of Directors above ten; ◦ making any material amendment to our charter or by-laws; ◦ engaging in a merger, consolidation or other business combination with any other entity; and ◦ appointing or removing our Chairman of the Board or our Chief Executive Officer; • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, which could be issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; • classifying our common stock directors with staggered three-year terms and having three directors elected by the holders of the Series A convertible preferred stock, which may lengthen the time required to gain control of our Board of Directors; • limiting who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent (subject to certain exceptions), thereby requiring stockholder action to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; • requiring stockholder approval by holders of at least 80% of our voting power or the approval by at least 75% of our Board of Directors with respect to certain extraordinary matters, such as a merger or consolidation, a sale of all or substantially all of our assets or an amendment to our charter; • requiring the consent of the holders of at least 75% of the outstanding Series B common stock (voting as a separate class) to certain share distributions and other corporate actions in which the voting power of the Series B common stock would be diluted by, for example, issuing shares having multiple votes per share as a dividend to holders of Series A common stock; and 29 • the existence of authorized and unissued stock which would allow our Board of Directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of our management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us. We have also adopted a shareholder rights plan in order to encourage anyone seeking to acquire us to negotiate with our Board of Directors prior to attempting a takeover. While the plan is designed to guard against coercive or unfair tactics to gain control of us, the plan may have the effect of making more difficult or delaying any attempts by others to obtain control of us. Holders of any single series of our common stock may not have any remedies if any action by our directors or officers has an adverse effect on only that series of common stock. Principles of Delaware law and the provisions of our charter may protect decisions of our Board of Directors that have a disparate impact upon holders of any single series of our common stock. Under Delaware law, the Board of Directors has a duty to act with due care and in the best interests of all of our stockholders, including the holders of all series of our common stock. Principles of Delaware law established in cases involving differing treatment of multiple classes or series of stock provide that a board of directors owes an equal duty to all common stockholders regardless of class or series and does not have separate or additional duties to any group of stockholders. As a result, in some circumstances, our directors may be required to make a decision that is adverse to the holders of one series of common stock. Under the principles of Delaware law referred to above, stockholders may not be able to challenge these decisions if our Board of Directors is disinterested and adequately informed with respect to these decisions and acts in good faith and in the honest belief that it is acting in the best interests of all of our stockholders. If Advance/Newhouse were to exercise its registration rights, it may cause a significant decline in our stock price, even if our business is doing well. Advance/Newhouse has been granted registration rights covering all of the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible preferred stock held by Advance/Newhouse. Each share of Advance/Newhouse’s Series A-1 convertible preferred stock is currently convertible into nine shares of our Series A common stock and each share of Advance/Newhouse’s Series C-1 convertible preferred stock is convertible into 19.3648 shares of our Series C common stock, subject to certain anti-dilution adjustments. The registration rights, which are immediately exercisable, are transferable with the sale or transfer by Advance/Newhouse of blocks of shares representing 10% or more of the preferred stock it holds. The exercise of the registration rights, and subsequent sale of possibly large amounts of our common stock in the public market, could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. John C. Malone and Advance/Newhouse each have significant voting power with respect to corporate matters considered by our stockholders. For corporate matters other than the election of directors, Mr. Malone and Advance/Newhouse each beneficially own shares of our stock representing approximately 21% and 24%, respectively, of the aggregate voting power represented by our outstanding stock. With respect to the election of directors, Mr. Malone controls approximately 27% of the aggregate voting power relating to the election of the nine common stock directors (assuming that the convertible preferred stock owned by Advance/Newhouse (the “A/N Preferred Stock”) has not been converted into shares of our common stock). The A/N Preferred Stock carries with it the right to designate three preferred stock directors to our board (subject to certain conditions) but does not carry voting rights with respect to the election of the nine common stock directors. Also, under the terms of the A/N Preferred Stock, Advance/Newhouse has special voting rights as to certain enumerated matters, including material amendments to the restated charter and bylaws, fundamental changes in our business, mergers and other business combinations, certain acquisitions and dispositions and future issuances of capital stock. Although there is no stockholder agreement, voting agreement or any similar arrangement between Mr. Malone and Advance/Newhouse, by virtue of their respective holdings, Mr. Malone and Advance/Newhouse each have significant influence over the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders. 30 General Risks Theft of our content, including digital copyright theft and other unauthorized exhibitions of our content, may decrease revenue received from our programming and adversely affect our businesses and profitability. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to maintain the intellectual property rights to our entertainment content. We are fundamentally a content company, and piracy of our brands, television networks, digital content and other intellectual property has the potential to significantly and adversely affect us. Piracy is particularly prevalent in many parts of the world that lack copyright and other protections similar to existing law in the U.S. It is also made easier by technological advances allowing the conversion of content into digital formats, which facilitates the creation, transmission and sharing of high-quality unauthorized copies. Unauthorized distribution of copyrighted material over the Internet is a threat to copyright owners’ ability to protect and exploit their property. The proliferation of unauthorized use of our content may have an adverse effect on our business and profitability because it reduces the revenue that we potentially could receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our content. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect trade secrets or to determine the validity or scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. Domestic and foreign laws and regulations could adversely impact our operating results. Programming services like ours, and the distributors of our services, including cable operators, satellite operators and other multi-channel video programming distributors, are regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC, as well as by state and local governments, in ways that affect the daily conduct of our video content business. See the discussion under “Business – Regulatory Matters” above. The U.S. Congress, the FCC and the courts currently have under consideration, and may adopt or interpret in the future, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operations of our U.S. media properties or modify the terms under which we offer our services and operate. Similarly, the foreign jurisdictions in which our networks are offered have, in varying degrees, laws and regulations governing our businesses. Programming businesses are subject to regulation on a country-by-country basis. Changes in regulations imposed by foreign governments could also adversely affect our business, results of operations and ability to expand our operations beyond their current scope. Financial markets are subject to volatility and disruptions that may affect our ability to obtain or increase the cost of financing our operations and our ability to meet our other obligations. Increased volatility and disruptions in the U.S. and global financial and equity markets may make it more difficult for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments or increase the cost of obtaining financing. Our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies which are based, in significant part, on our performance as measured by credit metrics such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. A low rating could increase our cost of borrowing or make it more difficult for us to obtain future financing. Unforeseeable changes in foreign currencies could negatively impact our results of operations and calculations of interest coverage and leverage ratios. Acquisitions and other strategic transactions present many risks and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of any transaction. From time to time we make acquisitions, investments and enter into other strategic transactions, such as the Scripps Acquisition. In connection with such acquisitions and strategic transactions, we may incur unanticipated expenses, fail to realize anticipated benefits, have difficulty incorporating the acquired businesses, disrupt relationships with current and new employees, subscribers, affiliates and vendors, incur significant debt, or have to delay or not proceed with announced transactions. Additionally, regulatory agencies, such as the FCC or U.S. Department of Justice may impose additional restrictions on the operation of our business as a result of our seeking regulatory approvals for any significant acquisitions and strategic transactions. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business. 31 Our inability to successfully acquire and integrate other businesses, assets, products or technologies could harm our operating results. Our success may depend on opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that could complement, enhance or expand our current business or products or that might otherwise offer us growth opportunities. We have acquired, and have made strategic investments in, a number of companies (including through joint ventures) in the past, such as the Scripps Acquisition, and we expect to make additional acquisitions and strategic investments in the future. Such transactions may result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, use of our cash resources, and incurrence of debt and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. Any acquisitions and strategic investments that we are able to identify and complete may be accompanied by a number of risks, including: • the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired companies into our operations; • the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; • the incurrence of additional operating losses and operating expenses of the businesses we acquired or in which we invested; • the difficulty of integrating acquired technology and rights into our services and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; • the failure to successfully further develop an acquired business or technology and any resulting impairment of amounts currently capitalized as intangible assets; • the failure of strategic investments to perform as expected or to meet financial projections; • the potential for patent and trademark infringement and data privacy and security claims against the acquired companies, or companies in which we have invested; • litigation or other claims in connection with acquisitions, acquired companies, or companies in which we have invested; • the impairment or loss of relationships with customers and partners of the companies we acquired or in which we invested or with our customers and partners as a result of the integration of acquired operations; • the impairment of relationships with, or failure to retain, employees of acquired companies or our existing employees as a result of integration of new personnel; • our lack of, or limitations on our, control over the operations of our joint venture companies; • the difficulty of integrating operations, systems, and controls as a result of cultural, regulatory, systems, and operational differences; • in the case of foreign acquisitions and investments, the impact of particular economic, tax, currency, political, legal and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; and • the impact of known potential liabilities or liabilities that may be unknown, including as a result of inadequate internal controls, associated with the companies we acquired or in which we invested. Our failure to be successful in addressing these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and strategic investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or investments, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally. The loss of key personnel or talent could disrupt our business and adversely affect our revenue. Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our corporate and divisional executive teams and entertainment personalities. Following the completion of a merger, like the Scripps Acquisition, current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with Discovery and choose to pursue other opportunities, which could have an adverse effect on Discovery. If key employees depart, our business may be adversely affected. Additionally, we employ or contract with entertainment personalities who may have loyal audiences. These individuals are important to audience endorsement of our programs and other content. There can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or retain their current audiences. If we fail to retain key individuals or if our entertainment personalities lose their current audience base, our operations could be adversely affected.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is a supplement to and should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and related notes. This section provides additional information regarding our businesses, current developments, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, contractual commitments and critical accounting policies. A discussion of our results of operations and liquidity for fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 can be found under Item 7 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019, filed on February 27, 2020, which is available free of charge on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov and our Investor Relations website at ir.corporate.discovery.com. BUSINESS OVERVIEW We are a global media company that provides content across multiple distribution platforms, including linear platforms such as pay-TV, FTA and broadcast television, our authenticated GO applications, digital distribution arrangements, content licensing arrangements and DTC subscription products. For a discussion of our global portfolio of networks and joint ventures see our business overview set forth in Item 1, “Business” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our content spans genres including survival, natural history, exploration, sports, general entertainment, home, food, travel, heroes, adventure, crime and investigation, health and kids. We have an extensive library of content and own most rights to our content and footage, which enables us to leverage our library to quickly launch brands and services into new markets and on new platforms. Our content can be re-edited and updated in a cost-effective manner to provide topical versions of subject matter that can be utilized around the world on a variety of platforms. We aim to invest in high-quality content for our networks and brands with the objective of building viewership, optimizing distribution revenue, capturing advertising revenue, and creating or repositioning branded channels and business to sustain long-term growth and occupy a desired content niche with strong consumer appeal. Our strategy is to maximize the distribution, ratings and profit potential of each of our branded networks. In addition to growing distribution and advertising revenues for our branded networks, we have extended content distribution across new platforms, including brand-aligned websites, online streaming, mobile devices, VOD, and broadband channels, which provide promotional platforms for our television content and serve as additional outlets for advertising and distribution revenue. Audience ratings are a key driver in generating advertising revenue and creating demand on the part of cable television operators, DTH satellite operators, telecommunication service providers, and other content distributors who deliver our content to their customers. Although we utilize certain brands and content globally, we classify our operations in two reportable segments: U.S. Networks, consisting principally of domestic television networks and digital content services, and International Networks, consisting primarily of international television networks and digital content services. Our segment presentation aligns with our management structure and the financial information management uses to make decisions about operating matters, such as the allocation of resources and business performance assessments. For further discussion of financial information for our segments and the geographical areas in which we do business, our content development activities, and revenues see our business overview set forth in Item 1, “Business” and Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Impact of COVID-19 On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared the COVID-19 outbreak to be a global pandemic. COVID-19 continues to spread throughout the world, and the duration and severity of its effects and associated economic disruption remain uncertain. Restrictions on social and commercial activity in an effort to contain the virus have had, and are expected to continue to have, a significant adverse impact upon many sectors of the U.S. and global economy, including the media industry. We continue to closely monitor the impact of COVID-19 on all aspects of our business and geographies, including the impact on our customers, employees, suppliers, vendors, distribution and advertising partners, production facilities, and various other third parties. Beginning in the second quarter of 2020, demand for our advertising products and services decreased due to economic disruptions from limitations on social and commercial activity. These economic disruptions and the resulting effect on the Company slightly eased during the second half of 2020, but the pandemic continued to impact demand through the end of 2020 and this decreased demand is expected to continue into 2021. Many of our third-party production partners that were shut down during most of the second quarter of 2020 due to COVID-19 restrictions came back online in the third quarter of 2020 and, as a result, we have incurred additional costs to comply with various governmental regulations and implement certain safety measures for our employees, talent, and partners. Additionally, certain sporting events that we have rights to were cancelled or postponed, thereby eliminating or deferring the related revenues and expenses, including the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games, which were postponed to 2021. The postponement of the Olympic Games deferred both Olympic-related revenues and significant expenses from fiscal year 2020 to fiscal year 2021. 38 In response to the impact of the pandemic, we employed and continue to employ innovative production and programming strategies, including producing content filmed by our on-air talent and seeking viewer feedback on which content to air. We continue to pursue a number of cost savings initiatives which began during the third and fourth quarters of 2020 and believe will offset a portion of anticipated revenue losses and deferrals, through the implementation of travel, marketing, production and other operating cost reductions, including personnel reductions, restructurings and resource reallocations to align our expense structure to ongoing changes within the industry. We also implemented remote work arrangements effective mid-March 2020 and, to date, these arrangements have not materially affected our ability to operate our business. In addition, we implemented several measures to preserve sufficient liquidity in the near term. During March 2020, we drew down $500 million under our $2.5 billion revolving credit facility to increase our cash position and maximize flexibility in light of the current uncertainty surrounding the impact of COVID-19. In addition, in April 2020, we entered into an amendment to our revolving credit facility, which increased flexibility under our financial covenants and issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes due May 2030 and $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes due May 2050. The proceeds from the notes were used to fund a tender offer for $1.5 billion of certain Senior Notes with maturities ranging from 2021 through 2023 and to repay the $500 million outstanding under our revolving credit facility. In light of the impact of COVID-19, we assessed goodwill, other intangibles, deferred tax assets, programming assets, and accounts receivable for recoverability based upon latest estimates and judgments with respect to expected future operating results, ultimate usage of content and latest expectations with respect to expected credit losses. We recorded goodwill and other intangible assets impairment charges of $124 million for our Asia-Pacific reporting unit during 2020. Adjustments to reflect increased expected credit losses were not material. Further, hedged transactions were assessed and we have concluded such transactions remain probable of occurrence. Due to significant uncertainty surrounding the impact of COVID-19, management’s judgments could change in the future. The effects of the pandemic may have further negative impacts on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. However, the current level of uncertainty over the economic and operational impacts of COVID-19 means the related financial impact cannot be reasonably and fully estimated at this time. The nature and extent of COVID-19’s effects on our operations and results will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including new information that may emerge concerning the severity and the extent of future surges of COVID-19, vaccine distribution and other actions to contain the virus or treat its impact, among others. We will continue to monitor COVID-19 and its impact on our business results and financial condition. Our consolidated financial statements reflect management’s latest estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and related disclosures as of the date of the consolidated financial statements and reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting periods presented. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates and assumptions. In the United States, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (“CARES Act”) was enacted on March 27, 2020, and the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 was enacted on December 27, 2020. As of December 31, 2020, we do not expect the CARES Act or the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 to have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations. We continue to monitor other relief measures taken by the U.S. and other governments around the world. 39 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Items Impacting Comparability The impact of exchange rates on our business is an important factor in understanding period-to-period comparisons of our results. For example, our international revenues are favorably impacted as the U.S. dollar weakens relative to other foreign currencies, and unfavorably impacted as the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other foreign currencies. We believe the presentation of results on a constant currency basis (ex-FX), in addition to results reported in accordance with GAAP provides useful information about our operating performance because the presentation ex-FX excludes the effects of foreign currency volatility and highlights our core operating results. The presentation of results on a constant currency basis should be considered in addition to, but not a substitute for, measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. The ex-FX change represents the percentage change on a period-over-period basis adjusted for foreign currency impacts. The ex-FX change is calculated as the difference between the current year amounts translated at a baseline rate, which is a spot rate for each of our currencies determined early in the fiscal year as part of our forecasting process (the “2020 Baseline Rate”), and the prior year amounts translated at the same 2020 Baseline Rate. In addition, consistent with the assumption of a constant currency environment, our ex-FX results exclude the impact of our foreign currency hedging activities, as well as realized and unrealized foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Results on a constant currency basis, as we present them, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Consolidated Results of Operations – 2020 vs. 2019 Our consolidated results of operations for 2020 and 2019 were as follows (in millions). NM - Not meaningful 40 Revenues Our advertising revenue is generated across multiple platforms and consists of consumer advertising, which is sold primarily on a national basis in the U.S. and on a pan-regional or local-language feed basis outside the U.S. Advertising contracts generally have a term of one year or less. Advertising revenue is dependent upon a number of factors, including the stage of development of television markets, the popularity of FTA television, the number of subscribers to our channels, viewership demographics, the popularity of our content and our ability to sell commercial time over a group of channels. Revenue from advertising is subject to seasonality, market-based variations, the mix in sales of commercial time between the upfront and scatter markets, and general economic conditions. Advertising revenue is typically highest in the second and fourth quarters. In some cases, advertising sales are subject to ratings guarantees that require us to provide additional advertising time if the guaranteed audience levels are not achieved. We also generate revenue from the sale of advertising through our digital products on a stand-alone basis and as part of advertising packages with our television networks. Advertising revenue decreased 8% in 2020. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, advertising revenue decreased 7%. The decrease was primarily attributable to a decline in demand stemming from the COVID-19 pandemic at both U.S. and International Networks. Distribution revenue consists principally of fees from affiliates for distributing our linear networks, supplemented by revenue earned from SVOD content licensing and other emerging forms of digital distribution. The largest component of distribution revenue is comprised of linear distribution services for rights to our networks from cable, DTH satellite and telecommunication service providers. We have contracts with distributors representing most cable and satellite service providers around the world, including the largest operators in the U.S. and major international distributors. Distribution revenues are largely dependent on the rates negotiated in the agreements, the number of subscribers that receive our networks or content, the number of platforms covered in the distribution agreement, and the market demand for the content that we provide. From time to time, renewals of multi-year carriage agreements include significant year one market adjustments to re-set subscriber rates, which then increase at rates lower than the initial increase in the following years. In some cases, we have provided distributors launch incentives, in the form of cash payments or free periods, to carry our networks. Distribution revenue also includes fees charged for bulk content arrangements and other subscription services for episodic content. These digital distribution revenues are impacted by the quantity, as well as the quality, of the content we provide. As reported and excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, distribution revenue increased 1% in 2020 primarily attributable to changes in contractual affiliate rates at U.S. Networks and International Networks. Other revenue decreased 16% in 2020. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, other revenue decreased 17%. Costs of Revenues Our principal component of costs of revenues is content expense. Content expense includes television series, television specials, films, sporting events and digital products. The costs of producing a content asset and bringing that asset to market consist of film costs, participation costs, exploitation costs and manufacturing costs. As reported and excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, costs of revenues increased 1% in 2020 primarily attributable to increases in content amortization from investments to support our next generation initiatives at U.S. Networks. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses consist principally of employee costs, marketing costs, research costs, occupancy and back office support fees. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 2% in 2020. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, selling, general and administrative decreased 1%. The decrease was primarily attributable to a reduction in travel costs as a result of COVID-19 and lower marketing-related expenses, partially offset by an increase in personnel costs to support our next generation platforms, including discovery+. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense includes depreciation of fixed assets and amortization of finite-lived intangible assets. As reported and excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, depreciation and amortization increased 1% in 2020. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase in capital expenditures. Impairment of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets was $124 million and $155 million in 2020 and 2019. 41 Restructuring and Other Charges Restructuring and other charges were $91 million and $26 million in 2020 and 2019. Restructuring and other charges  primarily include employee termination costs and other cost reduction efforts. Interest Expense, net Interest expense decreased 4% in 2020. The decrease was primarily attributable to a lower average debt balance in 2020, a more favorable interest rate profile on our outstanding senior notes, and incremental interest income related to the change in fair value of our cross-currency swaps. Loss on Extinguishment of Debt In 2020, we repurchased $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of DCL's and Scripps Networks' senior notes. The repurchase resulted in a loss on extinguishment of debt of $76 million. The loss included $67 million of net premiums to par value and $9 million of other charges. Loss from Equity Investees, net We reported losses from our equity method investees of $105 million in 2020 compared to losses of $2 million in 2019. The changes are attributable to the Company's share of earnings and losses from its equity investees. Other Income (Expense), net The table below presents the details of other income (expense), net (in millions). Income Taxes The following table reconciles our effective income tax rate to the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate. 42 Income tax expense was $373 million and $81 million, and o ur effective tax rate was 22% and 4% for 2020 and 2019. The increase in income tax expense in 2020 was primarily attributable to the discrete, one-time, non-cash deferred tax benefit of $445 million from legal entity restructurings that was recorded in 2019. Additionally, the increase in income tax expense in 2020 was attributable to an increase in provision for uncertain tax positions and an increase in the effect of foreign operations. Those increases were partially offset by a decrease in pre-tax book income, a tax benefit from a favorable multi-year state resolution, and a favorable deferred tax adjustment in the U.S. that was recorded in 2020. Segment Results of Operations – 2020 vs. 2019 We evaluate the operating performance of our operating segments based on financial measures such as revenues and Adjusted OIBDA. Adjusted OIBDA is defined as operating income excluding: (i) employee share-based compensation, (ii) depreciation and amortization, (iii) restructuring and other charges, (iv) certain impairment charges, (v) gains and losses on business and asset dispositions, (vi) certain inter-segment eliminations related to production studios, (vii) third-party transaction costs directly related to the acquisition and integration of Scripps Networks and other transactions, and (viii) other items impacting comparability, such as the non-cash settlement of a withholding tax claim. We use this measure to assess the operating results and performance of our segments, perform analytical comparisons, identify strategies to improve performance, and allocate resources to each segment. We believe Adjusted OIBDA is relevant to investors because it allows them to analyze the operating performance of each segment using the same metric management uses. We exclude share-based compensation, restructuring and other charges, certain impairment charges, gains and losses on business and asset dispositions, and acquisition and integration costs from the calculation of Adjusted OIBDA due to their impact on comparability between periods. We also exclude the depreciation of fixed assets and amortization of intangible assets, as these amounts do not represent cash payments in the current reporting period. Certain corporate expenses and inter-segment eliminations related to production studios are excluded from segment results to enable executive management to evaluate segment performance based upon the decisions of segment executives. Adjusted OIBDA should be considered in addition to, but not a substitute for, operating income, net income and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). 43 The table below presents our Adjusted OIBDA by segment, with a reconciliation of consolidated net income available to Discovery, Inc. to Adjusted OIBDA (in millions). 44 The table below presents the calculation of Adjusted OIBDA (in millions). U.S. Networks The table below presents, for our U.S. Networks segment, revenues by type, certain operating expenses, and Adjusted OIBDA (in millions). Revenues Advertising revenue decreased 5% in 2020 primarily attributable to softer demand stemming from the COVID-19 pandemic, secular declines in the pay-TV ecosystem and, to a lesser extent, lower overall ratings and a decline in inventory, partially offset by increases in pricing and the continued monetization of content offerings on our next generation platforms (such as our GO suite of TVE applications and DTC subscription products). Distribution revenue increased 4% in 2020 primarily attributable to increases in contractual affiliate rates and certain non-recurring items, partially offset by a decline in linear subscribers. Excluding these non-recurring items, distribution revenue increased 3% in 2020. Total portfolio subscribers at December 31, 2020 were 5% lower than at December 31, 2019, while subscribers to our fully distributed networks were 3% lower than the prior year. Other revenue decreased $23 million in 2020. Costs of Revenues Costs of revenues increased 2% in 2020 primarily attributable to increases in content amortization from investments to support our next generation initiatives, partially offset by a reduction in production projects as a result of COVID-19 and a non-recurring reserve release established in purchase accounting. Content expense was $1.6 billion and $1.5 billion in 2020 and 2019. 45 Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 4% in 2020 primarily attributable to a reduction in travel costs as a result of COVID-19 and lower marketing-related expenses, partially offset by an increase in personnel costs to support our next generation platforms, including discovery+. Adjusted OIBDA Adjusted OIBDA decreased 3% in 2020. International Networks The following table presents, for our International Networks segment, revenues by type, certain operating expenses, and Adjusted OIBDA (in millions). Revenues Advertising revenue decreased 13% in 2020. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, advertising revenue decreased 12%. The decreases were attributable to a decline in demand stemming from the COVID-19 pandemic and the discontinuation of pay-TV distribution with certain European operators. Distribution revenue decreased 4% in 2020. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, distribution revenue decreased 3%. The decreases were primarily attributable to lower contractual affiliate rates, the discontinuation of pay-TV distribution with certain European operators, and a disruption in the number of sporting events in Europe due to COVID-19, partially offset by higher next generation revenues due to subscriber growth. Other revenue decreased $18 million in 2020. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, other revenue decreased $22 million. Costs of Revenues As reported and excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, costs of revenues decreased 1% in 2020. The decreases were primarily attributable to a reduction in the number of sporting events in Europe due to COVID-19. Content expense, excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, was $1.3 billion for 2020 and 2019. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 2% in 2020. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, selling, general, and administrative expenses increased 3%. The increases were primarily attributable to higher personnel costs to support our next generation platforms, partially offset by a reduction in travel costs as a result of COVID-19. 46 Adjusted OIBDA Adjusted OIBDA decreased 32% in 2020. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, adjusted OIBDA decreased 28%. Corporate, Inter-segment Eliminations, and Other The following table presents our unallocated corporate amounts including certain operating expenses, and Adjusted OIBDA (in millions). Corporate operations primarily consist of executive management, administrative support services, substantially all of our share-based compensation and transaction and integration costs related to the acquisition of Scripps Networks and other transactions. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity Sources of Cash Historically, we have generated a significant amount of cash from operations. During 2020, we funded our working capital needs primarily through cash flows from operations. As of December 31, 2020, we had $2.1 billion of cash and cash equivalents on hand. We are a well-known seasoned issuer and have the ability to conduct registered offerings of securities, including debt securities, common stock and preferred stock, on short notice, subject to market conditions. Access to sufficient capital from the public market is not assured. We also have a $2.5 billion revolving credit facility and commercial paper program described below. Beginning in February 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic began adversely affecting the availability of borrowings in the commercial paper market. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2020, we implemented several measures that we believed would preserve sufficient liquidity in the near term in response to the impact of COVID-19, as discussed further below. • Debt 2020 Senior Notes Activity During 2020, we commenced five separate private offers to exchange (the “Exchange Offers”) any and all of Discovery Communications, LLC's ("DCL"), our wholly-owned subsidiary, outstanding 5.000% Senior Notes due 2037, 6.350% Senior Notes due 2040, 4.950% Senior Notes due 2042, 4.875% Senior Notes due 2043 and 5.200% Senior Notes due 2047 (collectively, the “Old Notes”) for one new series of DCL 4.000% Senior Notes due September 2055 (the “New Notes”). We completed the Exchange Offers in September 2020, by exchanging $1.4 billion aggregate principal amount of the Old Notes validly tendered and accepted by us pursuant to the Exchange Offers, for $1.7 billion aggregate principal amount of the New Notes (before debt discount of $318 million). The New Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by us and Scripps Networks on an unsecured and unsubordinated basis. The Exchange Offers were accounted for as a debt modification and, as a result, third-party issuance costs totaling $11 million were expensed as incurred. 47 Also during 2020, we completed offers to purchase for cash (the “Cash Offers”) the Old Notes. Approximately $22 million aggregate principal amount of the Old Notes were validly tendered and accepted for purchase by us pursuant to the Cash Offers, for total cash consideration of $27 million, plus accrued interest. The Cash Offers resulted in a loss on extinguishment of debt of $5 million. Finally, during 2020, DCL issued $2.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes due in 2030 and 2050. All of DCL's outstanding senior notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on an unsecured and unsubordinated basis by Discovery and Scripps Networks and contain certain covenants, events of default and other customary provisions. DCL used the proceeds from the offering to fund a tender offer for $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of DCL's and Scripps Networks' senior notes, which resulted in a loss on extinguishment of debt of $71 million, and to repay the $500 million outstanding under our revolving credit facility described below. 2019 Senior Notes Activity During 2019, DCL issued $1.5 billion aggregate principal of senior notes (the "2029 Notes and 2049 Notes"). Revolving Credit Facility and Commercial Paper We have access to a $2.5 billion revolving credit facility. Borrowing capacity under this credit facility is reduced by the outstanding borrowings under our commercial paper program. During March 2020, we drew down $500 million under the revolving credit facility to increase our cash position and maximize flexibility in light of the uncertainty surrounding the impact of COVID-19 and such amount was repaid during the second quarter of 2020. All obligations of DCL and the other borrowers under the revolving credit facility are unsecured and are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Discovery. The credit agreement governing the revolving credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”) contains customary representations, warranties and events of default, as well as affirmative and negative covenants. In the second quarter of 2020, to preserve flexibility in the current environment, we amended certain provisions of the Credit Agreement, including modifying the financial covenants to reset the Maximum Consolidated Leverage Ratio. (See Note 8 to the accompany consolidated financial statements.) As of December 31, 2020, we were in compliance with all covenants and there were no events of default under the Credit Agreement. Under our commercial paper program and subject to market conditions, DCL may issue unsecured commercial paper notes guaranteed by Discovery and Scripps Networks from time to time up to an aggregate principal amount outstanding at any given time of $1.5 billion, including up to $500 million of Euro-denominated borrowings. The maturities of these notes vary but may not exceed 397 days. The notes may be issued at a discount or at par, and interest rates vary based on market conditions and the credit rating assigned to the notes at the time of issuance. As of December 31, 2020, we had no outstanding commercial paper borrowings. Borrowings under the commercial paper program reduce the borrowing capacity under the revolving credit facility described above. Uses of Cash Our primary uses of cash include the creation and acquisition of new content, capital expenditures, business acquisitions, repurchases of our capital stock, income taxes, personnel costs, principal and interest payments on our outstanding senior notes, and funding for various equity method and other investments, including next generation initiatives. • Content Acquisition We plan to continue to invest significantly in the creation and acquisition of new content. Additional information regarding contractual commitments to acquire content is set forth in "Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements" in this Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." • Capital Expenditures and Investments in Next Generation Initiatives We effected capital expenditures of $402 million in 2020, including amounts capitalized to support our next generation platforms, such as discovery+. In addition, we expect to continue to incur significant costs to develop and market discovery+ in the future. • Investments and Business Combinations We made business acquisitions of $39 million and $73 million in 2020 and 2019. During 2020, we purchased $250 million of time deposit investments. 48 Our uses of cash have included investments in various equity investments. We provide funding to our investees from time to time. We contributed $181 million and $254 million in 2020 and 2019, for investments in and advances to our investees. • Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest and Noncontrolling Interest Due to business combinations, we also have redeemable equity balances of $383 million, which may require the use of cash in the event holders of noncontrolling interests put their interests to the Company beginning in 2021. Distributions to redeemable noncontrolling interests and noncontrolling interests totaled $254 million and $250 million in 2020 and 2019. • Common Stock Repurchases Historically, we have funded our stock repurchases through a combination of cash on hand, cash generated by operations and the issuance of debt. In February 2020, our Board of Directors authorized additional stock repurchases of up to $2 billion upon completion of our existing $1 billion authorization announced in May 2019. Under the new stock repurchase authorization, management is authorized to purchase shares from time to time through open market purchases at prevailing prices or privately negotiated purchases subject to market conditions and other factors. (See Note 12 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.) During 2020 and 2019, we repurchased $969 million and $633 million of our Series C common stock. • Income Taxes and Interest We expect to continue to make payments for income taxes and interest on our outstanding senior notes. During 2020 and 2019, we made cash payments of $641 million and $562 million for income taxes and $673 million and $708 million for interest on our outstanding debt. • Debt 2020 Debt Activity In addition to the tender offers for $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of DCL's and Scripps Networks' senior notes and repayment of the $500 million outstanding under our revolving credit facility described above, during 2020 we repaid $600 million of senior notes as they came due. We have an additional $335 million of senior notes coming due in June 2021, which will be redeemed on March 21, 2021. 2019 Debt Activity During 2019, we used the net proceeds from the issuance of the 2029 Notes and 2049 Notes to redeem and repurchase $1.3 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes. The repayment resulted in a loss on extinguishment of debt of $23 million. Also during 2019, we redeemed $411 million aggregate principal senior notes, made open market bond repurchases of $55 million, resulting in a loss on extinguishment of debt of $5 million, and redeemed $900 million of senior notes and floating rate notes as they came due. Cash Flows Changes in cash and cash equivalents were as follows (in millions). 49 Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities was $2.7 billion and $3.4 billion in 2020 and 2019. The decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease in net income excluding non-cash items and, to a lesser extent, a negative fluctuation in working capital activity, primarily due to the timing of payments, partially offset by an increase in receivables collected. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities was $703 million and $438 million in 2020 and 2019. The increase in cash used in investing activities was primarily driven by the purchase of $250 million in time deposit investments in 2020 and, to a lesser extent, an increase in purchases of property and equipment to support our next generation platforms, including discovery+, partially offset by a reduction in investments in and advances to equity investments. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities was $1.5 billion and $2.4 billion in 2020 and 2019. The decrease in cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to lower net repayments and incremental borrowings of senior notes and the change in net activity under the revolving credit facility, partially offset by an increase in repurchases of stock. Capital Resources As of December 31, 2020, capital resources were comprised of the following (in millions). We expect that our cash balance, cash generated from operations and availability under the Credit Agreement will be sufficient to fund our cash needs for the next twelve months. Our borrowing costs and access to capital markets can be affected by short and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies which are based, in part, on our performance as measured by credit metrics such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. As of December 31, 2020, we held $161 million of our $2.1 billion of cash and cash equivalents in our foreign subsidiaries. The 2017 Tax Act features a participation exemption regime with current taxation of certain foreign income and imposes a mandatory repatriation toll tax on unremitted foreign earnings. Notwithstanding the U.S. taxation of these amounts, we intend to continue to reinvest these funds outside of the U.S. Our current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate them to the U.S. However, if these funds are needed in the U.S., we would be required to accrue and pay non-U.S. taxes to repatriate them. The determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred income tax liability with respect to these undistributed foreign earnings is not practicable. Summarized Guarantor Financial Information Basis of Presentation Each of the Company, DCL, Discovery Communications Holding LLC (“DCH”) and/or Scripps Networks has the ability to conduct registered offerings of debt securities under the Company’s shelf registration statement. As of December 31, 2020, all of the Company’s outstanding registered senior notes have been issued by DCL, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company and guaranteed by the Company and Scripps Networks, except for $32 million of senior notes outstanding as of  December 31, 2020 that have been issued by Scripps Networks and are not guaranteed. (See Note 8 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.) DCL primarily includes the Discovery Channel and TLC networks in the U.S. DCL is a wholly owned subsidiary of DCH. The Company wholly owns DCH through a 33 1/3% direct ownership interest and a 66 2/3% indirect ownership interest through Discovery Holding Company (“DHC”), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Scripps Networks is 100% owned by the Company. 50 The tables below present the summarized financial information as combined for Discovery, Inc. (the “Parent”), Scripps Networks and DCL (collectively, the “Obligors”). All guarantees of DCL's senior notes (the “Note Guarantees”) are full and unconditional, joint and several and unsecured, and cover all payment obligations arising under the senior notes. DCH currently is not an issuer or guarantor of any securities and therefore is not included in the summarized financial information included herein. Note Guarantees issued by Scripps Networks or any subsidiary of the Parent that in the future issues a Note Guarantee (each, a “Subsidiary Guarantor”) may be released and discharged (i) concurrently with any direct or indirect sale or disposition of such Subsidiary Guarantor or any interest therein, (ii) at any time that such Subsidiary Guarantor is released from all of its obligations under its guarantee of payment by DCL, (iii) upon the merger or consolidation of any Subsidiary Guarantor with and into DCL or the Parent or another Subsidiary Guarantor, or upon the liquidation of such Subsidiary Guarantor and (iv) other customary events constituting a discharge of the Obligors’ obligations. Summarized Financial Information During 2020, the Company early adopted Rule 13-01 of the SEC's Regulation S-X. In lieu of providing separate unaudited financial statements for the Parent and Scripps Networks as a Subsidiary Guarantor, the Company has included the accompanying summarized combined financial information of the Obligors after the elimination of intercompany transactions and balances among the Obligors and the elimination of equity in earnings from and investments in any subsidiary of the Parent that is a non-guarantor (in millions). Additional information regarding the changes in our outstanding indebtedness and the significant terms and provisions of our revolving credit facility and outstanding indebtedness is discussed in Note 8 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 51 COMMITMENTS AND OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Obligations As of December 31, 2020, our significant contractual obligations, including related payments due by period, were as follows (in millions). The above table does not include certain long-term obligations as the timing or the amount of the payments cannot be predicted. The current portion of the liability for cash-settled share-based compensation awards was $37 million as of December 31, 2020. Additionally, reserves for unrecognized tax benefits have been excluded from the above table because we are unable to predict reasonably the ultimate amount or timing of settlement. Our unrecognized tax benefits totaled $348 million as of December 31, 2020. The above table also does not include DCL's revolving credit facility that allows DCL and certain designated foreign subsidiaries of DCL to borrow up to $2.5 billion, including a $100 million sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit and a $50 million sublimit for Euro-denominated swing line loans. Borrowing capacity under this agreement is reduced by the outstanding borrowings under the commercial paper program. As of December 31, 2020, the revolving credit facility agreement provided for a maturity date of August 2022 and the option for up to two additional 364-day renewal periods. From time to time we may provide our equity method investees additional funding that has not been committed to as of December 31, 2020 based on unforeseen investee opportunities or cash flow needs. Long-term Debt Principal payments on long-term debt reflect the repayment of our outstanding senior notes, at face value, assuming repayment will occur upon maturity. Interest payments on our outstanding senior notes are projected based on their contractual rate and maturity. Finance Lease Obligations We acquire satellite transponders and other equipment through multi-year finance lease arrangements. Principal payments on finance lease obligations reflect amounts due under our finance lease agreements. Interest payments on our outstanding finance lease obligations are based on the stated or implied rate in our finance lease agreements. Operating Lease Obligations We obtain office space and equipment under multi-year lease arrangements. Most operating leases are not cancelable prior to their expiration. Payments for operating leases represent the amounts due under the agreements assuming the agreements are not canceled prior to their expiration. Purchase Obligations Content purchase obligations include commitments and liabilities associated with third-party producers and sports associations for content that airs on our television networks. Production contracts generally require: purchase of a specified number of episodes; payments over the term of the license; and include both programs that have been delivered and are available for airing and programs that have not yet been produced or sporting events that have not yet taken place. If the content is ultimately never produced, our commitments expire without obligation. The commitments disclosed above exclude content liabilities recognized on the consolidated balance sheet. We expect to enter into additional production contracts and content licenses to meet our future content needs. 52 Other purchase obligations include agreements with certain vendors and suppliers for the purchase of goods and services whereby the underlying agreements are enforceable, legally binding and specify all significant terms. Significant purchase obligations include transmission services, television rating services, marketing research, employment contracts, equipment purchases, and information technology and other services. We have contracts that do not require the purchase of fixed or minimum quantities and generally may be terminated with a 30-day to 60-day advance notice without penalty, and are not included in the table above past the 30-day to 60-day advance notice period. Amounts related to employment contracts include base compensation and do not include compensation contingent on future events. Put Rights We have granted put rights to certain consolidated subsidiaries, which have been excluded from the table above since we are unable to reasonably predict the ultimate amount or timing of any payment. We recorded the carrying value of the noncontrolling interest in the equity associated with the put rights as a component of redeemable noncontrolling interest in the amount of $383 million. (See Note 11 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.) Pension Obligations We sponsor a qualified defined benefit pension plan (“Pension Plan”) that covers certain U.S.-based employees. We also have a non-qualified Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (“SERP”). Contractual commitments summarized in the contractual obligations table include payments to meet minimum funding requirements of our Pension Plan in 2021 and estimated benefit payments for our SERP. Payments for the SERP have been estimated over a ten-year period. While benefit payments under these plans are expected to continue beyond 2030, we believe it is not practicable to estimate payments beyond this period. Noncontrolling Interest The Food Network and Cooking Channel are operated and organized under the terms of the TV Food Network Partnership (the "Partnership"). We hold interests in the Partnership, along with another noncontrolling owner. During the fourth quarter of 2020, the Partnership agreement was extended and specifies a dissolution date of December 31, 2022. If the term of the Partnership is not extended prior to that date, the Partnership agreement permits us, as holder of 80% of the applicable votes, to reconstitute the Partnership and continue its business. If for some reason the Partnership is not continued, it will be required to limit its activities to winding up, settling debts, liquidating assets and distributing proceeds to the partners in proportion to their partnership interests. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements (as defined in Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S-K) that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS In the ordinary course of business, we enter into transactions with related parties, primarily the Liberty Entities and our equity method investees. Information regarding transactions and amounts with related parties is discussed in Note 21 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. NEW ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING PRONOUNCEMENTS We adopted certain accounting and reporting standards during 2020. Information regarding our adoption of new accounting and reporting standards is discussed in Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 53 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP, which requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and accompanying notes. Management considers an accounting policy to be critical if it is material to reporting our financial condition and results of operations, and if it requires significant judgment and estimates on the part of management in its application. The development and selection of these critical accounting policies have been determined by management and the related disclosures have been reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company. We believe the following accounting policies are critical to our business operations and the understanding of our results of operations and involve the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Uncertain Tax Positions We are subject to income taxes in numerous U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, we engage in transactions or takes filing positions in which the tax consequences may be uncertain and may recognize tax liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes and interest will be due. We establish a reserve for uncertain tax positions unless we determine that such positions are more likely than not to be sustained upon examination based on their technical merits, including the resolution of any appeals or litigation processes. We include interest and where appropriate, potential penalties, in our tax reserves. This assessment relies on estimates and assumptions and may involve a series of complex judgments about future events including the status and results of income tax audits with the relevant tax authorities. Significant judgment is exercised in evaluating all relevant information, the technical merits of the tax positions, and the accurate measurement of uncertain tax positions when determining the amount of reserve and whether positions taken on our tax returns are more likely than not to be sustained. This also involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions with respect to the potential outcome of positions taken on tax returns that may be reviewed by tax authorities. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill is allocated to our reporting units, which are our operating segments or one level below our operating segments (the component level). Reporting units are determined by the discrete financial information available for the component and whether it is regularly reviewed by segment management. Components are aggregated into a single reporting unit if they share similar economic characteristics. Our reporting units are as follows: U.S. Networks, Europe, Latin America, and Asia-Pacific. We evaluate our goodwill for impairment annually as of October 1 or earlier upon the occurrence of substantive unfavorable changes in economic conditions, industry trends, costs, cash flows, or ongoing declines in market capitalization. If we believe that as a result of our qualitative assessment it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, a quantitative impairment test is required. The quantitative impairment test requires significant judgment in determining the fair value of the reporting units. We determine the fair value of our reporting units by using a combination of the income approach, which incorporates the use of the discounted cash flow (“DCF”) method and the market multiple approach, which incorporates the use of EBITDA multiples based on market data. For the DCF method, we use projections specific to the reporting unit, as well as those based on general economic conditions, which require the use of significant estimates and assumptions. Determining fair value specific to each reporting unit requires the Company to exercise judgment when selecting the appropriate discount rates, control premiums, terminal growth rates, assumed tax rates, relevant comparable company earnings multiples and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows, including revenue growth rates and profit margins. The cash flows employed in the DCF analysis for each reporting unit are based on the reporting unit's budget, long range plan, and recent operating performance. Discount rate assumptions are based on an assessment of the risk inherent in the future cash flows of the respective reporting unit and market conditions. 54 2020 Impairment Analysis We concluded that the continued impacts of COVID-19 on the operating results of the Europe reporting unit represented a triggering event in the second quarter of 2020. During the second quarter, we performed a quantitative goodwill impairment analysis for our Europe reporting unit using a DCF valuation model. A market-based valuation model was not weighted in the analysis given the significant volatility in the equity markets. Significant judgments and assumptions in the DCF model included the amount and timing of future cash flows, including revenue growth rates, long-term growth rates of 2%, and a discount rate ranging from 10% to 10.5%. The estimated fair value of the Europe reporting unit exceeded its carrying value and, therefore, no impairment was recorded. Also during the second quarter of 2020, we determined that it was more likely than not that the fair value was greater than the carrying value for all other reporting units with the exception of the Asia-Pacific reporting unit. We performed a quantitative goodwill impairment analysis for the Asia-Pacific reporting unit and determined that the estimated fair value did not exceed its carrying value, which resulted in a pre-tax impairment charge to write-off the remaining $36 million goodwill balance during the second quarter of 2020. The impairment charge was not deductible for tax purposes. Significant judgments and assumptions included the amount and timing of future cash flows, including revenue growth rates, long-term growth rates ranging from 2% to 2.5%, and a discount rate of 11%. The cash flows employed in the DCF analysis for the Asia-Pacific reporting unit were based on the reporting unit’s budget and long-term business plan. The determination of fair value of our Asia-Pacific reporting unit represents a Level 3 fair value measurement in the fair value hierarchy due to its use of internal projections and unobservable measurement inputs. The goodwill impairment charge did not have an impact on the calculation of our financial covenants under our debt arrangements. During the third quarter of 2020, we realigned our International Networks management reporting structure. As a result, Australia and New Zealand, which were previously included in the Europe reporting unit, are now included in the Asia-Pacific reporting unit, including the associated goodwill. As a result of this realignment, we performed a quantitative goodwill impairment analysis for our Europe and Asia-Pacific reporting units using a DCF valuation model. A market-based valuation model was not weighted in the analysis given the significant volatility in the equity markets. Significant judgments and assumptions in the DCF model included the amount and timing of future cash flows, including revenue growth rates, long-term growth rates of 2% for Europe and 2% to 2.5% for Asia-Pacific, and a discount rate ranging from 10% to 10.5% for Europe and 11% for Asia-Pacific. The estimated fair value of both the Europe and Asia-Pacific reporting units exceeded their carrying values and, therefore, no impairment was recorded. During the fourth quarter of 2020, we performed our annual qualitative goodwill impairment assessment for all reporting units and we determined that it was more likely than not that the fair value of those reporting units exceeded their carrying values, except for our Europe and Asia-Pacific reporting units. Given limited headroom of below 20% in its Europe and Asia-Pacific reporting units during the third quarter of 2020, we performed a quantitative goodwill impairment analysis for each of these reporting units using a DCF valuation model. A market-based valuation model was not weighted in the analysis due to significant volatility in the reporting units' equity markets. The quantitative goodwill impairment analysis for our Europe reporting unit indicated that the estimated fair value exceeded its carry value by approximately 20% and, therefore, no impairment was recorded. Significant judgments and assumptions included the amount and timing of future cash flows, including revenue growth rates, long-term growth rate of 2%, and discount rates ranging from 10.5% to 11%. We noted that a 1.0% increase in the discount rate and a 0.5% decrease in the long-term growth rate would not have resulted in an impairment loss. As of December 31, 2020, the carrying value of goodwill assigned to the Europe reporting unit was $1.9 billion. The quantitative impairment analysis for our Asia-Pacific reporting unit indicated that estimated fair value did not exceed its carrying value, which resulted in a pre-tax impairment charge to write-off the remaining $85 million goodwill balance. The impairment was a result of increased cost projections for this region committed to during the fourth quarter of 2020 as part of our global discovery+ rollout strategy. The impairment charge was not deductible for tax purposes. Significant judgments and assumptions included the amount and timing of future cash flows, including revenue growth rates, long-term growth rates ranging from 2% to 2.5%, and a discount rate of 11%. The cash flows employed in the DCF analysis for the Asia-Pacific reporting unit were based on the reporting unit’s budget and long-term business plan. The determination of fair value of our Asia-Pacific reporting unit represents a Level 3 fair value measurement in the fair value hierarchy due to its use of internal projections and unobservable measurement inputs. The goodwill impairment charge did not have an impact on the calculation of our financial covenants under our debt arrangements. 55 Content Rights Content rights principally consist of television series, specials, films and sporting events. Costs of produced and coproduced content consist of development costs, acquired production costs, direct production costs, certain production overhead costs and participation costs and is capitalized if we have previously generated revenues from similar content in established markets and the content will be used and revenues will be generated for a period of at least one year. Linear content amortization expense for each period is recognized based on the revenue forecast model, which approximates the proportion that estimated distribution and advertising revenues for the current period represent in relation to the estimated remaining total lifetime revenues. Digital content amortization for each period is recognized based on estimated viewing patterns as there are no direct revenues to associate to the individual content assets and therefore, number of views is most representative of the use of the title. Judgment is required to determine the useful lives and amortization patterns of our content assets. Critical assumptions used in determining content amortization include: (i) the grouping of content with similar characteristics, (ii) the application of a quantitative revenue forecast model or viewership model based on the adequacy of historical data, (iii) determining the appropriate historical periods to utilize and the relative weighting of those historical periods in the forecast model, (iv) assessing the accuracy of our forecasts and (v) incorporating secondary streams. We then consider the appropriate application of the quantitative assessment given forecasted content use, expected content investment and market trends. Content use and future revenues may differ from estimates based on changes in expectations related to market acceptance, network affiliate fee rates, advertising demand, the number of cable and satellite television subscribers receiving our networks, the number of subscribers to our digital services, and program usage. Accordingly, we continually review our estimates and planned usage and revise our assumptions if necessary. Consolidation We have ownership and other interests in and contractual arrangements with various entities, including corporations, partnerships, and limited liability companies. For each such entity, we evaluate our ownership, other interests and contractual arrangements to determine whether we should consolidate the entity or account for its interest as an investment at inception and upon reconsideration events. As part of its evaluation, we initially determine whether the entity is a variable interest entity ("VIE"). Management evaluates key considerations through a qualitative and quantitative analysis in determining whether an entity is a VIE including whether (i) the entity has sufficient equity to finance its activities without additional financial support from other parties, (ii) the ability or inability to make significant decisions about the entity’s operations, and (iii) the proportionality of voting rights of investors relative to their obligations to absorb the expected losses (or receive the expected returns) of the entity. If the entity is a VIE and if we have a variable interest in the entity, we use judgment in determining if we are the primary beneficiary and are thus required to consolidate the entity. In making this determination, we evaluate whether we or another party involved with the VIE (1) has the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE’s economic performance and (2) has the obligation to absorb losses of or receive benefits from the VIE that could be significant to the VIE. If it is concluded that an entity is not a VIE, we consider our proportional voting interests in the entity and consolidate majority-owned subsidiaries in which a controlling financial interest is maintained. A controlling financial interest is determined by majority ownership and the absence of substantive third-party participation rights. Key factors we consider in determining the presence of substantive third-party participation rights include, but are not limited to, control of the board of directors, budget approval or veto rights, or operational rights that significantly impact the economic performance of the business such as programming, creative development, marketing, and selection of key personnel. Ownership interests in unconsolidated entities for which we have significant influence are accounted for as equity method. Revenue Recognition As described in Note 2, we generate advertising revenues primarily from advertising sold on our television networks and websites and distribution revenues from fees charged to distributors of its network content, which include cable, direct-to-home satellite, telecommunications and digital service providers and bundled long-term content arrangements, as well as through DTC subscription services. Revenue contracts with our advertising customers may include multiple distinct performance obligations. For example, linear and digital advertising contracts may include the airing of spots and/or the satisfaction of an audience guarantee. For such contracts, judgment is required in allocating the contract value to the individual performance obligations based on their relative standalone selling prices. Various factors such as prior transactions, rate cards and other market indicators are used to determine the standalone selling price of each performance obligation and accordingly, how much revenue is allocated to each performance obligation. For these contracts, revenue recorded when each performance obligation has been satisfied and value has been transferred to the customer. 56 A substantial portion of the advertising contracts in the U.S. and certain international markets guarantee the advertiser a minimum audience level that either the program in which their advertisements are aired or the advertisement will reach. These advertising campaigns are considered to represent a single, distinct performance obligation. For such contracts, judgement is required in measuring progress across the Company’s single performance obligation. Various factors such as pricing specific to the channel, daypart and targeted demographic, as well as estimated audience guarantees, are considered in determining how to appropriately measure progress across the campaigns. Revenues are ultimately recognized based on the audience level delivered multiplied by the average price per impression. See Item 1A, "Risk Factors" for details on all significant risks that could impact our ability to successfully grow our cash flows. For an in-depth discussion of each of our significant accounting policies, including our critical accounting policies and further information regarding estimates and assumptions involved in their application, see Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.