********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Risk Factor Summary The following summarizes the principal factors that make an investment in our company speculative or risky, all of which are more fully described in the Risk Factors section below. This summary should be read in conjunction with the Risk Factors section and should not be relied upon as an exhaustive summary of the material risks facing our business. The order of presentation is not necessarily indicative of the level of risk that each factor poses to us. Risks Arising from Our Business: Our business model and the operations of our business involve risks, including those related to: • the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic; • uncertainty regarding the implementation and impact of the CARES Act and future stimulus or other COVID-19 relief legislation; • investments in and acquisitions of health care and seniors housing properties; • unknown liability exposure related to acquired properties; • competition for acquisitions may result in increased prices; • our joint venture partners; • Seniors Housing Operating properties operational risks; • our ability to terminate our management agreements with Seniors Housing Operating managers; • operational and legal risks with respect to our properties managed in RIDEA structures; • the ability of operators and tenants to make payments to us; • the impacts of severe cold and flu seasons or other widespread illnesses on occupancy; • the insolvency or bankruptcy of our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other obligors; • our ability to timely reinvest our sale proceeds on terms acceptable to us; • any adverse developments in the business or financial condition of Sunrise Senior Living, LLC; • any failure, inability or unwillingness by ProMedica Health System to satisfy obligations under their agreements with us; • ownership of property outside the U.S.; • our ability to lease or sell properties on favorable terms; • tenant, operator and manager insurance coverage; • loss of properties owned through ground leases upon breach or termination of the ground leases; • requirements of, or changes to governmental reimbursement programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid or government funding; • controls imposed on certain of our tenants who provide health care services that are reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid and other third-party payors to reduce admissions and length of stay; • our operators’ or tenants’ failure to comply with federal, state, province, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards; • development, redevelopment and construction; • losses caused by severe weather conditions, natural disasters or the physical effects of climate change; • costs incurred to remediate environmental contamination at our properties; • our reliance on data and technology systems and the increasing risks of cybersecurity incidents; and 25 • our dependence on key personnel. Risks Arising from Our Capital Structure Our capital structure involves exposure to risks, including those related to: • our future leverage; • the availability of cash for distributions to stockholders; • covenants in our debt agreements; • limitations on our ability to access capital; • changes affecting the availability of LIBOR; • any downgrades in our credit ratings; and • increases in interest rates. Risks Arising from Our Status as a REIT As a result of our status as a REIT, we are exposed to risks, including those related to: • our ability to remain qualified as a REIT; • the ability of our subsidiaries to qualify as a REIT; • the impact of the 90% annual distribution requirement on our liquidity and ability to engage in otherwise beneficial transactions; • our limited use of TRSs under the Code; • special requirements applicable to the lease of qualified health care properties to a taxable REIT subsidiary; • tax consequences if certain sale-leaseback transactions are not characterized by the IRS as “true leases; and • changes in our tax rate or exposure to additional tax liabilities. Risks Factors This section highlights significant factors, events and uncertainties that could create risk with an investment in our securities. The events and consequences discussed in these risk factors could, in circumstances we may not be able to accurately predict, recognize or control, have a material adverse effect on our business, growth, reputation, prospects, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, liquidity, ability to pay dividends and stock price. These risk factors do not identify all risks that we face: our operations could also be affected by factors, events or uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently do not consider to present significant risks to our operations. We group these risk factors into three categories: • Risks arising from our business; • Risks arising from our capital structure; and • Risks arising from our status as a REIT. Risks Arising from Our Business The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic may continue to adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are unable to accurately predict the full impact that the COVID-19 pandemic will have on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows due to numerous factors that are not within our control. These factors include the duration and severity of the outbreak, including the impact of new variants; the continued deployment of vaccines and boosters; the effectiveness of vaccines and boosters over time and against new variants; public health measures, such as business closures and stay-at-home orders, and other actions taken by governments, businesses and individuals in response to the pandemic; the availability of federal, state, local or non-U.S. funding programs; general economic disruption and uncertainty in key markets and financial market volatility; and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on general macroeconomic conditions and the pace of recovery when the pandemic subsides. The COVID-19 pandemic has subjected our business, operations and financial condition to a number of risks, including but not limited to those discussed below: • Risks Related to Revenue: Our revenues and our operators' revenues are dependent on occupancy. Our Seniors Housing Operating portfolio has experienced a decline in spot occupancy from 85.8% at February 29, 2020 to 76.2% at December 31, 2020 and 77.7% at December 31, 2021. Although the ongoing impact of the pandemic, including new variants, and vaccine and booster deployment on occupancy remain uncertain, occupancy of our Seniors Housing Operating and Triple-net properties could further decrease, including as a result of new variants or decreases in vaccine effectiveness over time. Such a decrease could affect the net operating income of our Seniors Housing Operating properties and the ability of our Triple-net operators to make contractual payments to us. In addition, 26 although we collected virtually all rent due in the fourth quarter of 2021, rental income in our Outpatient Medical segment may decrease if our tenants do not renew leases or do not make timely or full lease payments as a result of medical practice closures or decreases in revenue due to government imposed restrictions on elective medical procedures or decisions by patients to delay treatments. As a result of the financial impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operators and tenants, we may offer certain tenants concessions such as rent deferrals or rent abatements across our Triple-net and Outpatient Medical segments. • Risks Related to Operator and Tenant Financial Condition: In addition to decreased revenue from tenant and operator payments, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic creates a heightened risk of tenant, operator, borrower, manager or other obligor bankruptcy or insolvency due to factors such as prolonged decreased occupancy, medical practice disruptions resulting from stay-at-home orders, increased health and safety and labor expenses or litigation resulting from developments related to the COVID-19 pandemic. See" - The insolvency or bankruptcy of our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other obligors may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition" for more information Our ability to terminate our lease with a tenant or management agreement with an operator or manager, and relet the property to another tenant or transition to a new operator or manager may be severely limited under current conditions due to the industry and macroeconomic effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and local ordinances. If we cannot transition a leased property to a new tenant, operator or manager due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic or for other reasons, we may take possession of that property, which may expose us to certain successor liabilities. Publicity about an operator's financial condition and insolvency proceedings, particularly in light of ongoing publicity related to the COVID-19 pandemic, may also negatively impact their and our reputations, decreasing customer demand and revenues. Additionally, COVID-19 claims have been excluded from insurance policies resulting in uninsured claims, and there has been an increase of COVID-19 class action lawsuits filed that may result in unfavorable verdicts. Should such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely affected. • Risks Related to Operations: Across all of our properties, we and our operators and tenants have incurred increased operational costs as a result of the introduction of public health measures and other regulations affecting our properties and operations, as well as additional health and safety measures adopted by us and our operators and tenants related to the COVID-19 pandemic, including increases in labor and property cleaning expenses and expenditures related to efforts to procure PPE and supplies. Such operational costs may increase in the future based on the duration and severity of the pandemic or the introduction of additional public health regulations. In addition, operators and tenants are subject to risks arising from the unique pressures on seniors housing and medical practice employees during the COVID-19 pandemic including labor shortages resulting from macroeconomic trends. As a result of difficult conditions and stresses related to the COVID-19 pandemic, employee morale and productivity may suffer and additional pay, such as hazard pay, may not be sufficient to retain key operator and tenant employees. In addition, our operations or those of our operators or tenants may be adversely impacted if a significant number of our employees or those of our operators or tenants contract COVID-19. Although we continue to undertake extensive efforts to ensure the safety of our employees and residents and to provide operator and tenant support in this regard, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our facilities could result in additional operational costs and reputational and litigation risk to us and our operators and tenants. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, operator and tenant cost of insurance is expected to increase and such insurance may not cover certain claims related to COVID-19. Our exposure to COVID-19 related litigation risk may be increased if the operators or tenants of the relevant facilities are subject to bankruptcy or insolvency. In addition, to varying degrees during the course of the pandemic, we have experienced increased operational challenges and costs resulting from logistical challenges such as supply chain interruptions, business closures and restrictions on the movement of people. In response to stay-at-home orders and to support the health and well-being of our employees, many of our employees are currently working remote or hybrid schedules. The effects of such work arrangements for an extended period of time could impact employee productivity and morale and introduce additional operational risk, including but not limited to cybersecurity risks. • Risks Related to Liquidity: If our access to capital is restricted or our borrowing costs increase as a result of developments in financial markets relating to the pandemic, our operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. In addition, a prolonged period of decreased revenue may adversely affect our financial condition and long-term growth prospects and there can also be no assurance that we will not face credit rating downgrades. Future downgrades could adversely affect our cost of capital, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets. The events and consequences discussed in these risk factors could, in circumstances we may not be able to accurately predict, recognize or control, have a material adverse effect on our business, growth, reputation, prospects, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, liquidity, ability to pay dividends and stock price. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to adversely affect our operating and financial results, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in the risk factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 27 There remains uncertainty regarding the implementation and impact of the CARES Act and any future stimulus or other COVID-19 relief legislation. There can be no assurance as to the amount of financial assistance we and our operators will receive or that we will be able to comply with the terms and conditions to keep such assistance. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Coronavirus Aid Relief, and Economic Security Act ("CARES Act") and the Paycheck Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act ("PPPHCE Act"), signed into law on March 20, 2020, and April 24, 2020, respectively, authorized $175 billion in funding to be distributed to healthcare providers, including assisted living facilities. These funds, distributed through the Provider Relief Fund and administered by the Department of Health and Human Services, are required to be used to prevent, prepare for and respond to COVID-19 and reimburse expenses or lost revenues attributable the COVID-19 pandemic. Although these distributions are not subject to repayment, attestation and compliance with certain terms and conditions including detailed reporting and auditing are required. Any funds that are ultimately received and retained by us are not expected to fully offset the losses incurred in our senior living portfolio that are attributable to the COVID-19 pandemic. During the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we received government grants under the CARES Act primarily to cover increased expenses and lost revenue during the COVID-19 pandemic as well as under similar programs in the U.K. and Canada. For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 we recognized $102,575,000 and $34,941,000, respectively, of government grant income. We have completed applications for grant income under Phase 4 of the Provider Relief Fund and expect to receive additional funding during 2022. However, there can be no assurances that all of our applications will be approved or that additional funds will ultimately be received in full or in part. Our investments in and acquisitions of health care and seniors housing properties may be unsuccessful or fail to meet our expectations Some of our acquisitions may not prove to be successful. We could encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including contingent liabilities, and acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. If we agree to provide construction funding to an operator/tenant and the project is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure completion of the project. Such expenditures may negatively affect our results of operations. Investments in and acquisitions of seniors housing and health care properties entail risks associated with real estate investments generally, including risks that the investment will not achieve expected returns, that the cost estimates for necessary property improvements will prove inaccurate or that the tenant, operator or manager will fail to meet performance expectations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that our anticipated acquisitions and investments, the completion of which is subject to various conditions, will be consummated in accordance with anticipated timing, on anticipated terms, or at all. We may be unable to obtain or assume financing for acquisitions on favorable terms or at all. Health care properties are often highly customizable and the development or redevelopment of such properties may require costly tenant-specific improvements. We have experienced delays and disruptions to property redevelopment as a result of supply chain issues and construction material and labor shortages and may experience additional or more significant such delays in the future. We also may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and this could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Acquired properties may be located in new markets, either within or outside the United States, where we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, lack of business relationships in the area, costs associated with opening a new regional office and unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will achieve the economic benefit we expect from acquisitions, investment, development and redevelopment opportunities and may lead to impairment of such assets. Acquired properties may expose us to unknown liability We may acquire properties or invest in joint ventures that own properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, against the prior owners or other third parties with respect to unknown liabilities. As a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle or contest it, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Unknown liabilities with respect to acquired properties might include: liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination, claims by tenants, vendors or other persons against the former owners of the properties, liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. Competition for acquisitions may result in increased prices for properties We may face competition for acquisition opportunities from other well-capitalized investors, including publicly traded and privately held REITs, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, pension trusts, partnerships and individual investors. This competition may adversely affect us by subjecting us to the following risks: we may be unable to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well-capitalized real estate investors and, even if we are able to acquire a desired property, competition from other real estate investors may significantly increase the purchase price. 28 Our investments in joint ventures could be adversely affected by our lack of exclusive control over these investments, our partners’ insolvency or failure to meet their obligations, and disputes between us and our partners We have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, partnerships or joint ventures with other persons or entities. Joint venture investments involve risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including the possibility that our partner might become insolvent, refuse to make capital contributions when due or otherwise fail to meet its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments; that our partner might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals that are or become inconsistent with our interests or goals; that we could become engaged in a dispute with our partner, which could require us to expend additional resources to resolve such dispute and could have an adverse impact on the operations and profitability of the joint venture; that our partner may be in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our instructions or requests; and that our joint venture partners may be structured differently than us for tax purposes, which could create conflicts of interest and risks to our REIT status. In some instances, we and/or our partner may have the right to trigger a buy-sell, put right or forced sale arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, acquire our partner’s interest or sell the underlying asset at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. Our ability to acquire our partner’s interest may be limited if we do not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources. In such event, we may be forced to sell our interest in the joint venture when we would otherwise prefer to retain it. On the other hand, our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted and the market for our interest may be limited and/or valued lower than fair market value. Joint ventures may require us to share decision-making authority with our partners, which could limit our ability to control the properties in the joint ventures. Even when we have a controlling interest, certain major decisions may require partner approval, such as the sale, acquisition or financing of a property. We assume operational and legal risks with respect to our properties managed in RIDEA structures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition We have entered into various joint ventures that were structured under the provisions of the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007 (“RIDEA”), which permits REITs to own or partially own “qualified health care properties” in a structure through which we can participate directly in the cash flow of the properties’ operations (as compared to receiving only contractual rent payments) in compliance with REIT requirements. A “qualified health care property” includes real property and any personal property that is, or is necessary or incidental to the use of, a hospital, nursing facility, assisted living facility, congregate care facility, qualified continuing care facility, or other licensed facility which extends medical or nursing or ancillary services to patients. Under a RIDEA structure, we are required to rely on our operator to manage and operate the property, including complying with laws and providing resident care. However, as the owner of the property under a RIDEA structure, we are responsible for operational and legal risks and liabilities of the property, including, but not limited to, those relating to employment matters of our operators, compliance with health care fraud and abuse and other laws, governmental reimbursement matters, compliance with federal, state, local and industry-related licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards, and litigation involving our properties or residents/patients, even though we have limited ability to control or influence our operators’ management of these risks. Further, our taxable REIT subsidiary (“TRS”) is generally required to hold the applicable health care license and enroll in the applicable government health care programs (e.g., Medicare- and Medicaid), which subjects us to potential liability under various health care regulatory laws. Penalties for failure to comply with applicable laws may include loss or suspension of licenses and certificates of need, certification or accreditation, exclusion from government health care programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), administrative sanctions and civil monetary penalties. Although we have some general oversight approval rights and the right to review operational and financial reporting information, our operators are ultimately in control of the day-to-day business of the property, including clinical decision-making, and we rely on them to operate the properties in a manner that complies with applicable law. We are exposed to operational risks with respect to our Seniors Housing Operating properties that could adversely affect our revenue and operations We are exposed to various operational risks with respect to our Seniors Housing Operating properties that may increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. In addition to operational challenges related to the COVID-19 pandemic, these risks include fluctuations in occupancy experienced during the normal course of business, Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates; economic conditions; competition; federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards; the availability and increases in cost of general and professional liability insurance coverage; increases in property taxes; state regulation and rights of residents related to entrance fees; federal and state housing laws and regulations, including rent and eviction restrictions related to the COVID-19 pandemic; and the availability and increases in the cost of labor (as a result of unionization or otherwise). Any one or a combination of these factors may adversely affect our revenue and operations and could eventually lead to impairment of our properties. 29 We have rights to terminate our management agreements with operators, in whole or with respect to specific properties under certain circumstances, and we may be unable to replace if our management agreements are terminated or not renewed We are parties to long-term management agreements with our Seniors Housing Operating managers pursuant to which they provide comprehensive property management, accounting and other services with respect to our Seniors Housing Operating properties. We have the ability to  terminate any of our management agreements upon the occurrence of certain events such as insolvency relating to such manager, and in some cases, the failure to meet specific NOI targets without curing, as well as the occurrence of other events or certain conditions. We regularly monitor and review our rights and remedies under our management agreements. When determining if we will take significant action under those agreements, including terminating a manager, we consider numerous legal, contractual, regulatory, business and other relevant factors. In exercising our rights to terminate or not renew a management agreement, we would work with our existing seniors housing operators or potentially new operators to manage the properties; however, there is no assurance that we would be able to timely source a replacement or that any replacement manager would be effective. Any transition to a new manager would most likely require regulatory approval and potentially the approval of the holders of any liens on the property. The failure to replace on a timely basis, as well as the failure to receive these approvals, either at all or in a timely manner, could have an adverse effect on the properties and our revenue. Decreases in our operators’ or tenants' revenues or increases in our operators’ or tenants' expenses, including as a result of increased labor costs, could affect their ability to make payments to us We have very limited control over the success or failure of our operators' or tenants' businesses and, at any time, an operator or tenant may experience a downturn in their business that weakens their financial condition. Our operators’ and tenants' revenues are primarily driven by occupancy, private pay rates, and Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, if applicable. Expenses are primarily driven by the costs of labor, supplies, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. Revenues from government reimbursement have, and may continue to, come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls. Operating costs continue to increase for our operators and tenants. In particular, our operators' and tenants' businesses are vulnerable to increases in labor costs resulting from shortages of medical and non-medical staff. A number of factors may adversely affect the labor force available to our operators and tenants or labor costs, including increased industry competition, high employment levels, federal unemployment subsidies, including unemployment benefits offered in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, increased wages offered by other employers, including in other economic sectors, vaccine mandates and other government regulations. During the COVID-19 pandemic, in many geographic areas the lack of availability of specialized medical personnel, experienced senior care professionals and other workers has been a significant operating issue affecting a wide range of healthcare providers and senior care and housing facilities. Such shortages have and may continue to impact the operations of our operators and tenants, resulting in increased labor and operating costs. Continued labor shortages or cost inflation may impact our operators' and tenants' abilities to comply with minimum staffing requirements under applicable federal and state regulations. Failure to comply with these requirements can, among other things, jeopardize a facility's compliance with the conditions of participation under relevant state and federal healthcare programs. In addition, if a facility is determined to be out of compliance with these requirements, it may be subject to fines and other regulatory penalties, including the suspension of patient admissions, the termination of Medicaid participation or the suspension or revocation of licenses. To the extent that any decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses result in an operator or tenant not generating enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our operator or tenant and the value of other collateral would have to be relied upon. To the extent the value of such property is reduced, we may need to record an impairment for such asset. Furthermore, if we determine to dispose of an underperforming property, such sale may result in a loss. Any such impairment or loss on sale would negatively affect our financial results. These risks are magnified where we lease multiple properties to a single operator or tenant under a master lease, as a failure or default under a master lease would expose us to these risks across multiple properties. Although our lease agreements give us the right to exercise certain remedies in the event of default on the obligations owing to us, we may determine not to do so if we believe that enforcement of our rights would be more detrimental to our business than seeking alternative approaches. Increased competition and oversupply may affect our operators’ and managers' ability to meet their obligations to us The operators and managers of our properties compete on a local and regional basis with operators and managers of properties and other health care providers that provide comparable services for residents and patients, including on the basis of the scope and quality of care and services provided, reputation and financial condition, physical appearance of the properties, price, and location. In addition, in light of labor shortages for medical and non-medical workers in many geographic areas, our operators and tenants increasingly compete to attract qualified and experienced employees. Our operators and managers are expected to encounter increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to attract residents and employees or expand their businesses. In addition, we expect that there will continue to be a more than adequate inventory of seniors housing facilities. We cannot be certain that the operators of all of our facilities will be able to achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels that meet our expected yields and fulfill their obligations to us, including but not limited to the results of the COVID-19 pandemic. If our operators and managers cannot compete effectively or if there is an oversupply of facilities, their financial performance could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 30 A severe cold and flu season, epidemics or any other widespread illnesses could adversely affect the occupancy of our Seniors Housing Operating and Triple-net properties In addition to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, our business and operations are exposed to risks from severe cold and flu seasons or the occurrence of epidemics or any other widespread illnesses. Our revenues and our operators' revenues are dependent on occupancy and the occupancy of our Seniors Housing Operating and Triple-net properties could significantly decrease in the event of a severe cold and flu season, an epidemic or any other widespread illness. Such a decrease could affect the operating income of our Seniors Housing Operating properties and the ability of our Triple-net operators to make payments to us. As experienced during the COVID-19 pandemic, a future flu or other pandemic could significantly increase the cost burdens faced by our operators, including if they are required to implement quarantines for residents, and adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial results. The insolvency or bankruptcy of our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other obligors may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition We are exposed to the risk that our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers or other obligors may not be able to meet the rent, principal and interest or other payments due us, which may result in a tenant, operator, borrower, manager or other obligor bankruptcy or insolvency, or that a tenant, operator, borrower, manager or other obligor might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings for other reasons. Although our operating lease agreements provide us with the right to evict a tenant, demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our loans provide us with the right to terminate any funding obligation, demand immediate repayment of principal and unpaid interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other remedies, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. A tenant, operator, borrower, manager or other obligor in bankruptcy or subject to insolvency proceedings may be able to limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive unpaid principal and interest in the case of a loan, and to exercise other rights and remedies. In addition, if a lease is rejected in a tenant bankruptcy, our claim against the tenant may be limited by applicable provisions of the bankruptcy law. We may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate taxes and maintenance) to preserve the value of an investment property, avoid the imposition of liens on a property and/or transition a property to a new tenant. In some instances, we have terminated our lease with a tenant and relet the property to another tenant. In some of those situations, we have provided working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the new obligor. If we cannot transition a leased property to a new tenant, we may take possession of that property, which may expose us to certain successor liabilities. Publicity about the operator's financial condition and insolvency proceedings may also negatively impact their and our reputations, decreasing customer demand and revenues. Should such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely affected. We may not be able to timely reinvest our sale proceeds on terms acceptable to us From time to time, we will have cash available from the proceeds of sales of our securities, principal payments on our loans receivable or the sale of properties, including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or similar financial support arrangements. In order to maintain current revenues and continue generating attractive returns, we expect to reinvest these proceeds in a timely manner. We compete for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors, including other health care REITs, real estate partnerships, health care providers, health care lenders and other investors, including developers, banks, insurance companies, pension funds, government-sponsored entities and private equity firms, some of whom may have greater financial resources and lower costs of capital than we do. This competition for attractive investments may negatively affect our ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us. In addition, our ability to execute on our real estate investment strategies may be temporarily disrupted during periods of financial market volatility or real estate and health care industry market uncertainty, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The properties managed by Sunrise Senior Living, LLC (“Sunrise”) account for a significant portion of our revenues and net operating income and any adverse developments in its business or financial condition could adversely affect us As of December 31, 2021, Sunrise managed 110 of our Seniors Housing Operating properties. These properties account for a significant portion of our revenues and net operating income. Under our management agreements, we rely on Sunrise’s personnel, expertise, technical resources and information systems, proprietary information, good faith and judgment to manage our Seniors Housing Operating properties efficiently and effectively. We also rely on Sunrise to set appropriate resident fees, to provide accurate property-level financial results for our properties in a timely manner and to otherwise operate them in compliance with the terms of our management agreements and all applicable laws and regulations. Any adverse developments in Sunrise’s business or financial condition could impair its ability to manage our properties efficiently and effectively, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. For example, we depend on Sunrise’s ability to attract and retain skilled management personnel who are responsible for the day-to-day operations of our Seniors Housing Operating properties. A shortage of nurses or other trained personnel or general inflationary pressures may force Sunrise to enhance its pay and benefits packages to compete effectively for such personnel, but it may not be able to offset these added costs by increasing the rates charged to residents. Any increase in labor costs and other property operating expenses, any failure by Sunrise to attract and retain qualified personnel, or significant changes in Sunrise’s senior management or equity ownership 31 could adversely affect the income we receive from our Seniors Housing Operating properties and have a material adverse effect on us. Also, if Sunrise experiences any significant financial, legal, accounting or regulatory difficulties, such difficulties could result in, among other things, acceleration of its indebtedness, impairment of its continued access to capital or the commencement of insolvency proceedings by or against it under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we determine to sell or transition properties currently managed by Sunrise, we may experience operational challenges and/or significantly declining financial performance for those properties. We depend on ProMedica Health System ("ProMedica") for a significant portion of our revenues and any failure, inability or unwillingness by them to satisfy obligations under their agreements with us could adversely affect us As of December 31, 2021, we lease 205 properties to ProMedica under triple-net leases, which account for a significant portion of our revenues. We depend on ProMedica to pay all insurance, taxes, utilities and maintenance and repair expenses in connection with the leased properties. We cannot assure you that ProMedica will have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable them to make rental payments to us or to otherwise satisfy their respective obligations under our leases, and any failure, inability or unwillingness by ProMedica to do so could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. ProMedica have also agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses, and we cannot assure you that ProMedica will have sufficient assets, income, access to financing and insurance coverage to enable them to satisfy their respective indemnification obligations. ProMedica's failure to effectively conduct their operations or to maintain and improve our properties could adversely affect their business reputations and their ability to attract and retain patients and residents in our properties, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Ownership of property outside the U.S. may subject us to different or greater risks than those associated with our domestic operations We have operations in the U.K. and Canada which represent 11.7% and 8.9% of total Welltower revenues, respectively.  As of December 31, 2021, Revera managed 85 of our Seniors Housing Operating properties in Canada, representing a significant portion of our revenues, and also owned a controlling interest in Sunrise. International development, ownership, and operating activities involve risks that are different from those we face with respect to our domestic properties and operations. These risks include, but are not limited to, any international currency gain or loss recognized with respect to changes in exchange rates, which may not qualify under the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test required for us to satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a REIT; challenges with respect to the repatriation of foreign earnings and cash; impact from international trade disputes and the associated impact on our tenants' supply chain and consumer spending levels; changes in foreign political, regulatory, and economic conditions (regionally, nationally and locally) including, but not limited to, challenges in managing international operations; challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to real estate, corporate governance, operations, taxes, employment and other civil and criminal legal proceedings; foreign ownership restrictions with respect to operations in foreign countries; local businesses and cultural factors that differ from our usual standards and practices; differences in lending practices and the willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to provide financing; regional or country-specific business cycles and political and economic instability; and failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations in the U.S. that affect foreign operations, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Additionally, the COVID-19 pandemic may subject our international business and that of our operators and tenants to different or greater risks than those faced in the U.S. These factors may include the duration and severity of the outbreak in a particular country due to the impact of new variants, the distribution of vaccines and boosters, or public health measures or other actions taken by governments, businesses and individuals in response to the pandemic. If our tenants do not renew their existing leases, or if we are required to sell properties for liquidity reasons, we may be unable to lease or sell the properties on favorable terms, or at all We cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases at the end of their lease terms, which expire at various times. If these leases are not renewed, we would be required to find other tenants to occupy those properties, or sell them. There can be no assurance that we would be able to identify suitable replacement tenants or enter into leases with new tenants on terms as favorable to us as the current leases or that we would be able to lease those properties at all. Our competitors may offer space at rental rates below current market rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our customers, we may lose potential customers, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge to retain customers when leases expire. In addition, our ability to reposition our properties with a suitable replacement tenant or operator could be significantly delayed or limited by state licensing, receivership, CON or other laws, as well as by the Medicare and Medicaid change-of-ownership rules, and we could incur substantial additional expenses in connection with any licensing, receivership or change-of-ownership proceedings. Even if tenants decide to renew or lease new space, the terms of renewals or new leases, including the cost of required renovations or concessions to tenants, may be less favorable to us than current lease terms. 32 Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and most of the property we own is highly customized for specific uses. Our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in response to changes in operator, economic and other conditions will be limited. No assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any property that we are required to sell. Our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the seniors housing and health care industries. A downturn in the real estate industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us. Our tenants, operators and managers may not have the necessary insurance coverage to insure adequately against losses We maintain or require our tenants, operators and managers to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties and their operations with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are customary for similarly situated companies in our industry and we frequently review our insurance programs and requirements. Our tenants, operators and managers may not be able to maintain adequate levels of insurance and required coverages. Also, we may not be able to require the same levels of insurance coverage under our lease, management and other agreements, which could adversely affect us in the event of a significant uninsured loss. We cannot make any guarantee as to the future financial viability of the insurers that underwrite our policies and the policies maintained by our tenants, operators and managers. Insurance may not be available at a reasonable cost in the future or policies may not be maintained at a level that will fully cover all losses on our properties upon the occurrence of a catastrophic event. This may be especially the case due to increases in property insurance costs. In addition, in recent years, long-term/post-acute care and seniors housing operators and managers have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size of patient care liability claims. As a result, general and professional liability costs have increased in some markets. Due to the uncertainty of the long term effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, general and professional liability insurance coverage may be restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect the tenants’, operators’ and managers’ future operations, cash flows and financial conditions, and may have a material adverse effect on the tenants’, operators’ and managers’ ability to meet their obligations to us. Finally, our use, and the usage by some of our tenants, operators and managers of self-insurance and/or use of a wholly owned captive insurance company, if not adequately funded, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and that of our tenants, operators and managers. Our ownership of properties through ground leases exposes us to the loss of such properties upon breach or termination of the ground leases We have acquired an interest in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property on which the building is located, and we may acquire additional properties in the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. Many of these ground leases impose significant limitations on our uses of the subject properties, restrict our ability to sell or otherwise transfer our interests in the properties or restrict the leasing of the properties. These restrictions may limit our ability to timely sell or exchange the properties, impair the properties’ value or negatively impact our ability to find suitable tenants for the properties. As the lessee under a ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination of the ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease by us. The requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid or government funding, could have a material adverse effect on our obligors’ liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect our obligors’ ability to meet their obligations to us Some of our obligors’ businesses are affected by government reimbursement. To the extent that an operator/tenant receives a significant portion of its revenues from government payors, primarily Medicare and Medicaid, such revenues may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set-offs, court decisions, administrative rulings, policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers, change-of-ownership rules, government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities), any lapse in Congressional funding of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing government investigations and audits at such property. In recent years, government payors have frozen or reduced payments to health care providers due to budgetary pressures. Federal and state authorities may continue seeking to implement new or modified reimbursement methodologies that may negatively impact health care property operations. See “Item 1 - Business - Certain Government Regulations - United States - Reimbursement” above for additional information. Health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of paramount importance to federal and state authorities. We cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms may have on the financial condition of our obligors and properties. There can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will be available for services provided by any property operator, whether the property receives reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid or private payors. Significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on an obligor’s liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect the ability of an obligor to meet its obligations to us. Since January 1, 2014, the Health Reform Laws have provided those states that expand their Medicaid coverage to otherwise eligible state residents with incomes at or below 138% of the federal poverty level with an increased federal medical assistance percentage, effective January 1, 2014, when certain conditions are met. Given that the federal government substantially funds the Medicaid expansion, it is unclear how many states will ultimately pursue this option, although, as of early January 2022, 33 more than 75% of the states have expanded Medicaid coverage. The participation by states in the Medicaid expansion could have the dual effect of increasing our tenants’ revenues, through new patients, but further straining state budgets and their ability to pay our tenants. While there have been multiple attempts to repeal or amend the Health Reform Laws through legislative action and legal challenges, legislative attempts to completely repeal the Health Reform Laws have been unsuccessful to date, and on June 17, 2021, the U.S. Supreme Court dismissed the most recent judicial challenge to the Health Reform Laws brought by several states without specifically ruling on the constitutionality of the Health Reform Laws. Nevertheless, the status of the Health Reform Laws may be subject to change and other health reform measures could be implemented as a result of political, legislative, regulatory, and administrative developments and judicial proceedings. Further impact that the Biden Administration or U.S. Congress may  have on health reform (including through new legislative, executive order, or regulatory efforts) remains uncertain, and any changes will likely take time to unfold and could have an impact on coverage and reimbursement for health care items and services covered by plans that were authorized by the Health Reform Laws. If the operations, cash flows or financial condition of our operators and tenants are materially adversely impacted by the Health Reform Laws or future legislation, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected as well. More generally, and because of the dynamic nature of the legislative and regulatory environment for health care products and services, and in light of existing federal deficit and budgetary concerns, we cannot predict the impact that broad-based, far-reaching legislative or regulatory changes could have on the U.S. economy, our business, or that of our operators and tenants. If controls imposed on certain of our tenants who provide health care services that are reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid and other third-party payors to reduce admissions and length of stay affect inpatient volumes at our health care facilities, the financial condition or results of operations of those tenants could be adversely affected Controls imposed by Medicare, Medicaid and commercial third-party payors designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as “utilization reviews,” have affected and are expected to continue to affect certain of our health care facilities, specifically our acute care hospitals and post-acute facilities. Utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by managed care plans. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payor-required pre-admission authorization and utilization review and by payor pressures to maximize outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. Efforts to impose more stringent cost controls and reductions are expected to continue, which could negatively impact the financial condition of our tenants who provide health care services in our hospitals and post-acute facilities. If so, this could adversely affect these tenants’ ability and willingness to comply with the terms of their leases with us and/or renew those leases upon expiration, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our operators’ or tenants’ failure to comply with federal, state, province, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards could adversely affect such operators’ or tenants’ operations, which could adversely affect our operators’ and tenants’ ability to meet their obligations to us Our operators and tenants generally are subject to or impacted by varying levels of federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards. These laws and regulations include, among others: laws protecting consumers against deceptive practices; laws relating to the operation of our properties and how our tenants and operators conduct their business, such as fire, health and safety, data security and privacy laws; federal and state laws affecting hospitals, clinics and other health care communities that participate in both Medicare and Medicaid that specify reimbursement rates, pricing, reimbursement procedures and limitations, quality of services and care, background checks, food service and physical plants, and similar foreign laws regulating the health care industry; resident rights laws (including abuse and neglect laws) and fraud laws; anti-kickback and physician referral laws; the ADA and similar state and local laws; and safety and health standards set by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration or similar foreign agencies. Our operators’ or tenants’ failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations, or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension, decertification or exclusion from federal and state health care programs, civil liability, and in certain limited instances, criminal penalties, material restrictions on or loss of license, closure of the facility and/or the incurrence of considerable costs arising from an investigation or regulatory action. The likelihood of these actions may increase due to the uncertainty of the long term effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Such actions may have an effect on our operators’ or tenants’ ability to make lease payments to us and, therefore, adversely impact us. In addition, we may be directly subject to these laws, regulations and standards, as well as potential investigation or enforcement, as a result of our RIDEA-structured arrangements, and certain other arrangements we may pursue with healthcare entities who are directly subject to these laws. See “Item 1 - Business - Certain Government Regulations - United States - Fraud & Abuse Enforcement” and “Item 1 - Business - Certain Government Regulations - United States - Health Care Matters - Generally” above. Many of our properties may require a license, registration, and/or CON to operate. Failure to obtain a license, registration, or CON, or loss of a required license, registration, or CON would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the operators or tenants. These events could materially adversely affect our operators’ or tenants’ ability to make rent or other obligatory payments to us. State and local laws also may regulate the expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction or renovation of health care facilities, by requiring a CON or other 34 similar approval from a state agency. See “Item 1 — Business — Certain Government Regulations — United States — Licensing and Certification” above. In addition, we cannot assure you that future changes in government regulation will not adversely affect the health care industry, including our tenants and operators, nor can we be certain that our tenants and operators will achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels or labor cost levels that will enable them to satisfy their obligations to us. Unfavorable resolution of pending and future litigation matters and disputes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition From time to time, we are directly involved or named as a party in in legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims that involve class actions, disputes regarding property damage, care matters and other issues. We also are named as defendants in lawsuits allegedly arising out of our actions or the actions of our operators/tenants or managers in which such operators/tenants or managers have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses. Employment related class action lawsuits have increased in recent years, including but not limited to class action lawsuits brought against our operators in certain states regarding employee and government requirements regarding wage and hour claims and fair housing complaints, as well as class action lawsuits related to COVID-19. There can be no assurance that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, pending or future litigation. In addition, pending litigation or future litigation, government proceedings or environmental matters could lead to increased costs or interruption of our normal business operations. An unfavorable resolution of pending or future litigation or legal proceedings may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Regardless of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses, significantly divert the attention of management, and could damage our reputation and our brand. In addition, any such resolution could involve our agreement to terms that restrict the operation of our business. We cannot guarantee losses incurred in connection with any current or future legal or regulatory proceedings or actions will not exceed any provisions we may have set aside in respect of such proceedings or actions or will not exceed any available insurance coverage. Development, redevelopment and construction risks could affect our profitability We invest in various development and redevelopment projects. In deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. In particular, we estimate the return on our investment based on expected construction costs, lease up velocity, occupancy, rental rates, operating expenses, capital costs and future competition. If our financial projections with respect to a new property are inaccurate, the property may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment. Our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove to be inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals. Our development/redevelopment and construction projects are vulnerable to the impact of material shortages and inflation. For example, shortages and fluctuations in the price of lumber or in other important raw materials could result in delays in the start or completion of, or increase the cost of, developing one or more of our projects. Pricing for labor and raw materials can be affected by various national, regional, local, economic and political factors, including changes to immigration laws that impact the availability of labor or tariffs on imported construction materials. In connection with our renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities, we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, or satisfactory tax rates, incentives or abatements. Operators of new facilities we construct may need to obtain Medicare and Medicaid certification and enter into Medicare and Medicaid provider agreements and/or third-party payor contracts. In the event that the operator is unable to obtain the necessary licensure, certification, provider agreements or contracts after the completion of construction, there is a risk that we will not be able to earn any revenues on the facility until either the initial operator obtains a license or certification to operate the new facility and the necessary provider agreements or contracts or we find and contract with a new operator that is able to obtain a license to operate the facility for its intended use and the necessary provider agreements or contracts. We have experienced such delays in obtaining necessary licensing for constructed properties and may experience additional or more significant delays in the future. We rely on our development managers, general contractors and subcontractors to oversee and manage day-to-day construction activities. If any such party underperforms, we may need to exercise contractual remedies against such party, which may include termination of the applicable underlying service contract. In the event such termination occurs mid-construction, we would likely need to engage a new service provider, which would likely result in additional costs and delays as the transition between providers occurs. The above-described factors could result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects. In addition, we may abandon opportunities we have begun to investigate, for a range of reasons, including changes in expected financing or construction costs, adverse changes in expected rents or expenses, adverse environmental and/or geotechnical findings, or conditions to zoning approval, which would result in additional expenses beyond those originally expected. In addition, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, or at all, which may render us unable to proceed with our development activities. We may not be able to complete construction and lease-up of a property on budget and on schedule, which could result in increased debt service expense or construction costs. Additionally, the time frame required for development, 35 construction and lease-up of these properties means that we may have to wait years for significant cash returns. Because we are required to make cash distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money to fund such distributions. Newly developed and acquired properties may not produce the cash flow that we expect, which could adversely affect our overall financial performance. We may experience losses caused by severe weather conditions, natural disasters or the physical effects of climate change, which could result in an increase of our or our tenants’ cost of insurance, unanticipated costs associated with evacuation, a decrease in our anticipated revenues or a significant loss of the capital we have invested in a property We maintain or require our tenants to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such coverage. However, a large number of our properties are located in areas particularly susceptible to revenue loss, cost increase or damage caused by severe weather conditions or natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes and floods, as well as the effects of climate change. We believe, given current industry practice and analysis prepared by outside consultants, that our and our tenants’ insurance coverage is appropriate to cover reasonably anticipated losses that may be caused by hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, floods, wildfires and other severe weather conditions and natural disasters, including the effects of climate change. Nevertheless, we are always subject to the risk that such insurance will not fully cover all losses and, depending on the severity of the event and the impact on our properties, such insurance may not cover a significant portion of the losses including but not limited to the costs associated with evacuation. These losses may lead to an increase of our and our tenants’ cost of insurance, a decrease in our anticipated revenues from an affected property and a loss of all or a portion of the capital we have invested in an affected property. In addition, we or our tenants may not purchase insurance under certain circumstances if the cost of insurance exceeds, in our or our tenants’ judgment, the value of the coverage relative to the risk of loss. Also, changes in federal and state legislation and regulation relating to climate change could result in increased capital expenditures to improve the energy efficiency and resiliency of our existing properties and could also necessitate us to spend more on our new development properties without a corresponding increase in revenue. To the extent that significant changes in the climate occur in areas where our communities are located, we may experience extreme weather and changes in precipitation and temperature, all of which may result in physical damage to or a decrease in demand for properties located in these areas or affected by these conditions. Should the impact of climate change be material, including significant property damage to or destruction of our communities, or occur for lengthy periods of time, our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, changes in federal, state and local legislation and regulation based on concerns about climate change could result in increased capital expenditures on our existing properties and our new development properties without a corresponding increase in revenue, resulting in adverse impacts to our net income. We may incur costs to remediate environmental contamination at our properties, which could have an adverse effect on our or our obligors’ business or financial condition Under various laws, owners or operators of real estate may be required to respond to the presence or release of hazardous substances on the property and may be held liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from environmental contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the substances or caused the release. We may become liable to reimburse the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. Generally, such liability attaches to a person based on the person’s relationship to the property. Our tenants or borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition of the property. Moreover, we review environmental site assessments of the properties that we own or encumber prior to taking an interest in them. Those assessments are designed to meet the “all appropriate inquiry” standard, which we believe qualifies us for the innocent purchaser defense if environmental liabilities arise. Based upon such assessments, we do not believe that any of our properties are subject to material environmental contamination. However, environmental liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur costs to remediate contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition or the business or financial condition of our obligors. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our business and result in the loss of confidential information and legal liability Our business is at risk from and may be impacted by cybersecurity attacks, including attempts to gain unauthorized access to our confidential data through phishing or other malicious activity, attempts to interrupt our access to, or use of information technology systems through distributed denial-of-service or ransomware attacks, breaches related to our increased receipt and use of data from multiple sources, and other electronic security breaches or other cybersecurity incidents within our environment or our business partners' environments, including those resulting from human error, product defects and technology failures. Such cyber-attacks can range from individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to our or our business partners' information technology systems to more sophisticated security threats and may be specifically targeted to our business or more general industry wide risks. Our information technology networks, and those of our business partners are essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations of our business. While we employ a number of measures to prevent, detect and mitigate these threats, there is no guarantee such efforts will be successful in preventing or detecting a cyber-attack. Even the most well-protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain vulnerable because the techniques used in such attempted cybersecurity breaches evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are 36 designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques, implement adequate cybersecurity barriers or other preventative measures, or respond, mitigate the risks from and recover from an attack without operational impact, and thus it is impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. We regularly defend against, respond to and mitigate risks from cybersecurity breaches, which to date have not had a material impact on our operations; however, there is no assurance that such impacts will not be material in the future. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our or our critical business partners’ business, damage our reputation, cause us to incur significant remediation expense and have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Cybersecurity breaches that compromise proprietary, personal identifying or confidential information of our employees, operators, tenants and partners, or result in operational disruptions, could result in legal claims or proceedings, including enforcement actions by regulators under data privacy regulations. Evolving privacy regulations could expose our business to reputational harm and losses Regulatory authorities around the world have implemented or are considering implementing a number of legislative changes or regulations concerning data protection, which have required or may require us to incur additional expenses and may expose us to additional risks. We are subject to numerous laws and regulations governing the protection of personal and confidential information of our clients or employees, including U.S. federal and state laws (including. but not limited to the State of California), and non- U.S. laws, such as the General Data Protection Regulation and the EU General Data Protection Regulation, which impose a number of obligations on us. These obligations vary from state to state and country to country, but generally have accountability and transparency including consent, detailed information and data removal and security requirements. Some jurisdictions impose the same requirements and restrictions on transfers of data from their jurisdictions to jurisdictions that they do not consider adequate. This may have implications for our cross-border data flows and may result in additional compliance costs. Many jurisdictions assess fines, the magnitude of which may depend on the annual global revenue of the noncompliant company, the nature, gravity and duration of, and the violation. Additionally, in some jurisdictions, data subjects may have a right to compensation for financial or non-financial losses. Complying with these laws may cause us to incur substantial operational and compliance costs or require us to change our business practices. Despite efforts to bring our practices into compliance with these laws, we may not be successful either due to internal or external factors such as resource allocation limitations or a lack of cooperation among our business partners. Non-compliance could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities, regulators, our business partners, residents of our communities, data subjects, suppliers, vendors or other parties. Further, there is a risk that compliance measures we undertake will not be implemented correctly or that individuals within our business or that of our business partners will not be fully compliant with the new procedures. If there are breaches of these measures, we could face significant administrative and monetary sanctions, as well as reputational damage, which may have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and prospects. Our success and the success of our operators and managers depends on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed Our success and the success of our operators and managers depends on the continued availability and service of key personnel, including executive officers and other highly qualified employees, and competition for their talents is intense. There is substantial competition for qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that we will retain our key personnel or that we will be able to recruit and retain other highly qualified employees in the future. Losing any key personnel could, at least temporarily, have a material adverse effect on our business and that of our operators and managers', financial position and results of operations. Risks Arising from Our Capital Structure We may become more leveraged Permanent financing for our investments is typically provided through a combination of public offerings of debt and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt. The incurrence or assumption of indebtedness may cause us to become more leveraged, which could (1) require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow to the payment of debt service, (2) make us more vulnerable to a downturn in the economy, (3) limit our ability to obtain additional financing, (4) negatively affect our credit ratings or outlook by one or more of the rating agencies or (5) make us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates because of the variable interest rates on some of our borrowings to the extent we have not entirely hedged such variable rate debt. Cash available for distributions to stockholders may be insufficient to make dividend contributions at expected levels and are made at the discretion of the Board of Directors If cash available for distribution generated by our assets decreases due to dispositions or otherwise, we may be unable to make dividend distributions at expected levels. Our inability to make expected distributions would likely result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. All distributions are made at the discretion of our Board of Directors in accordance with Delaware law and depend on our earnings, our financial condition, debt and equity capital available to us, our expectation of 37 our future capital requirements and operating performance, restrictive covenants in our financial and other contractual arrangements, maintenance of our REIT qualification, restrictions under Delaware law and other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time. Additionally, our ability to make distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described herein, or other significant adverse events, occur. We are subject to covenants in our debt agreements that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Among other things, these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. Breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness, in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against such instruments. These defaults could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Limitations on our ability to access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to make future investments or to meet our obligations and commitments We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the capital necessary to make future investments or to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature. Our access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control, including rising interest rates, inflation and other general market conditions; the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; the market price of the shares of our common stock and the credit ratings of our debt securities; changes in the credit ratings on U.S. government debt securities; uncertainty from the expected discontinuance of LIBOR and the transition to any other interest rate benchmark; and default or delay in payment by the U.S. of its obligations. We also rely on the financial institutions that are parties to our revolving credit facilities. If these institutions become capital constrained, tighten their lending standards or become insolvent or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from other borrowers within a short period of time, they may be unable or unwilling to honor their funding commitments to us, which would adversely affect our ability to draw on our revolving credit facilities and, over time, could negatively impact our ability to consummate acquisitions, repay indebtedness as it matures, fund capital expenditures or make distributions to our stockholders. If our access to capital is limited by these factors or other factors, it could negatively impact our ability to acquire properties, repay or refinance our indebtedness, fund operations or make distributions to our stockholders. Changes affecting the availability of the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) may have consequences for us that cannot yet reasonably be predicted We have outstanding debt, hedge agreements and receivable transactions with variable interest rates based on LIBOR. The LIBOR benchmark has been subject of national, international, and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. In March 2021, ICE Benchmark Administration, the administrator of LIBOR, confirmed that it would cease publication of USD LIBOR on December 31, 2021 for the one week and two month USD LIBOR tenors, and on June 30, 2023 for all other USD LIBOR tenors. As a result, the United States Federal Reserve has advised banks to stop new USD LIBOR issuances by the end of 2021. The Alternative Reference Rates Committee, which was convened by the Federal Reserve Board and the New York Fed, has identified the Second Oversight Financing Rate ("SOFR") as the recommended alternative rate for LIBOR. While it is not currently possible to determine precisely whether, or to what extent, the withdrawal and replacement of LIBOR would affect us, the implementation of SOFR or other alternative benchmark rates to LIBOR may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Any new benchmark rate will likely not replicate LIBOR exactly, which could impact contracts that terminate after 2023. There is uncertainty about how applicable law, the courts or we will address the replacement of LIBOR with alternative rates on agreements that do not include alternative rate fallback provisions. In addition, any changes to benchmark rates may have an uncertain impact on our cost of funds and our access to the capital markets, which could impact our results of operations and cash flows. Uncertainty as to the nature of such potential changes may also adversely affect the trading market for our securities. Additional financing, therefore, may be unavailable, more expensive or restricted by the terms of our outstanding indebtedness. Downgrades in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our cost and availability of capital We plan to manage the company to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings. Any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the rating agencies could have a material adverse effect on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, cash flows, the trading/redemption price of our securities and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our equity holders. Increases in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our cost of capital An increase in interest rates may increase interest cost on new and existing variable rate debt.  Such increases in the cost of capital could adversely impact our ability to finance operations, acquire and develop properties, and refinance existing debt. Additionally, increased interest rates may also result in less liquid property markets, limiting our ability to sell existing assets. 38 Risks Arising from Our Status as a REIT We might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT We intend to operate as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), and believe we have operated and will continue to operate in such a manner. If we lose our status as a REIT, we will face serious income tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution to our stockholders because: • we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates; • we would be subject to increased state and local taxes; and • unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four taxable    years following the year during which we were disqualified. Since REIT qualification requires us to meet a number of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them, and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of U.S. federal and other income taxes owed. A reduction in our earnings would affect the amount we could distribute to our stockholders. If we do not qualify as a REIT, we will not be required to make distributions to stockholders, since a non-REIT is not required to pay dividends to stockholders in order to maintain REIT status or avoid an excise tax. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, all distributions to stockholders will continue to be treated as dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, although corporate stockholders may be eligible for the dividends received deduction, and individual stockholders may be eligible for taxation at the rates generally applicable to long-term capital gains with respect to distributions. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to implement our business strategy and would adversely affect the value of our common stock. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to remain qualified as a REIT. Although we believe that we qualify as a REIT, we cannot assure you that we will remain qualified as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Certain subsidiaries might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT We own interests in a number of entities which have elected to be taxed as REITs for U.S. federal income tax purposes, some of which we consolidate for financial reporting purposes but each of which is treated as a separate REIT for federal income tax purposes (each a “Subsidiary REIT”). To qualify as a REIT, each Subsidiary REIT must independently satisfy all of the REIT qualification requirements under the Code, together with all other rules applicable to REITs. Provided that each Subsidiary REIT qualifies as a REIT, our interests in the Subsidiary REITs will be treated as qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests. If a Subsidiary REIT fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, such Subsidiary REIT will be subject to federal and state income taxes and may not be able to qualify as a REIT for the four subsequent taxable years. Any such failure could have an adverse effect on our ability to comply with the REIT income and asset tests, and thus our ability to qualify as a REIT, unless we are able to avail ourselves of certain relief provisions. The 90% annual distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial transactions To comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to REITs and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make distributions to our stockholders. Although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement. This may be due to timing differences between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand. In addition, non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash deductions may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. In the event that timing differences occur, or we deem it appropriate to retain cash, we may borrow funds, even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings, issue additional equity securities (although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so), pay taxable stock dividends, if possible, distribute other property or securities or engage in other transactions intended to enable us to meet the REIT distribution requirements. This may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations. Our use of TRSs is limited under the Code Under the Code, no more than 20% of the value of the gross assets of a REIT may be represented by securities of one or more TRSs. This limitation may affect our ability to increase the size of our TRSs’ operations and assets, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with the applicable limitation, or that such compliance will not adversely affect our business. Also, our TRSs may not, among other things, operate or manage certain health care facilities, which may cause us to forgo investments we might otherwise make. Finally, we may be subject to a 100% excise tax on the income derived from certain transactions with our TRSs that are not on an arm's-length basis. We believe our arrangements with our TRSs are on 39 arm's-length terms and intend to continue to operate in a manner that allows us to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to avoid application of that tax. The lease of qualified health care properties to a taxable REIT subsidiary is subject to special requirements We lease certain qualified health care properties to taxable REIT subsidiaries (or limited liability companies of which the taxable REIT subsidiaries are members), which lessees contract with managers (or related parties) to manage the health care operations at these properties. The rents from this taxable REIT subsidiary lessee structure are treated as qualifying rents from real property if (1) they are paid pursuant to an arm's-length lease of a qualified health care property with a taxable REIT subsidiary and (2) the manager qualifies as an eligible independent contractor (as defined in the Code). If any of these conditions are not satisfied, then the rents will not be qualifying rents. If certain sale-leaseback transactions are not characterized by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) as “true leases,” we may be subject to adverse tax consequences We have purchased certain properties and leased them back to the sellers of such properties, and we may enter into similar transactions in the future. We intend for any such sale-leaseback transaction to be structured in such a manner that the lease will be characterized as a “true lease,” thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, depending on the terms of any specific transaction, the IRS might take the position that the transaction is not a “true lease” but is more properly treated in some other manner. In the event any sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and successfully re-characterized by the IRS, we would not be entitled to claim the deductions for depreciation and cost recovery generally available to an owner of property. Furthermore, if a sale-leaseback transaction were so re-characterized, we might fail to satisfy the REIT asset tests or income tests and, consequently, could lose our REIT status effective with the year of re-characterization. Alternatively, the amount of our REIT taxable income could be recalculated, which may cause us to fail to meet the REIT annual distribution requirements for a taxable year. We could be subject to changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities We are subject to taxes in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Because the U.S. maintains a worldwide corporate tax system, the foreign and U.S. tax systems are somewhat interdependent. Longstanding international norms that determine each country's jurisdiction to tax cross-border international trade are evolving and could reduce the ability of our foreign subsidiaries to deduct for foreign tax purposes the interest they pay on loans from us, thereby increasing the foreign tax liability of the subsidiaries; it is also possible that foreign countries could increase their withholding taxes on dividends and interest. Our effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. We are also subject to the examination of our tax returns and other tax matters by the IRS and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. If we were subject to review or examination by the IRS or applicable foreign jurisdiction as the result of any new tax law changes, the ultimate determination of which may change our taxes owed for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued or recorded, our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be adversely affected. The present federal income tax treatment of REITs may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time, which could affect the federal income tax treatment of an investment in us. The federal income tax rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation and REITs are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, which results in statutory changes as well as frequent revisions to regulations and interpretations. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws in the U.S. or foreign jurisdictions might affect our investors or us. Revisions in tax laws and interpretations thereof could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify as a REIT, as well as the tax considerations relevant to an investment in us, could cause us to change our investments and commitments, and adversely affect our earnings and cash flow.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

45 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis is based primarily on the consolidated financial statements of Welltower Inc. presented in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) for the periods presented and should be read together with the notes thereto contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other important factors are identified in “Item 1 — Business” and “Item 1A — Risk Factors” above. Executive Summary Company Overview Welltower Inc. (NYSE:WELL), an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is driving the transformation of health care infrastructure. The Company invests with leading seniors housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems to fund the real estate and infrastructure needed to scale innovative care delivery models and improve people’s wellness and overall health care experience. Welltower ™ , a real estate investment trust (“REIT”), owns interests in properties concentrated in major, high-growth markets in the United States (U.S.), Canada and the United Kingdom (U.K.), consisting of seniors housing and post-acute communities and outpatient medical properties. The following table summarizes our consolidated portfolio for the year ended December 31, 2021 (dollars in thousands): (1) Represents consolidated net operating income ("NOI") and excludes our share of investments in unconsolidated entities. Entities in which we have a joint venture with a minority partner are shown at 100% of the joint venture amount. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information and reconciliation. The COVID-19 pandemic has had and may continue to have material and adverse effects on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in the future. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our operations and those of our operators and tenants will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence, including the scope, severity and duration of the pandemic, the effectiveness of vaccines, the actions taken to contain the pandemic or mitigate its impact and the direct and indirect economic effects of the pandemic and containment measures, the overall pace of recovery, among others. Our Seniors Housing Operating revenues are dependent on occupancy. Spot occupancy has steadily increased in recent months, with 94% of communities open for new admissions and nearly all communities allowing visitors, in-person tours and communal dining and activities as of December 31, 2021. Rapid distribution and a high acceptance rate of COVID-19 vaccinations by residents within assisted living and memory care facilities in the U.S. and U.K. have resulted in a significant decrease in total resident case counts across the portfolio from peak levels in mid-January 2021, however, resident case counts have increased in December 2021 as a result of highly transmissible variants. We have incurred increased operational costs as a result of the introduction of public health measures and other regulations affecting our properties, as well as additional health and safety measures adopted by us and our operators related to the COVID-19 pandemic, including increases in labor, personal protective equipment and sanitation. We expect total Seniors Housing Operating expenses to remain elevated during the pandemic and potentially beyond as these additional health and safety measures become standard practice. Our Triple-net operators are experiencing similar trends related to occupancy and operating costs as described above with respect to our Seniors Housing Operating properties. However, long-term/post-acute care facilities are generally experiencing a higher degree of occupancy declines. These factors may continue to impact the ability of our Triple-net operators to make contractual rent payments to us in the future. Many of our Triple-net operators received funds under the Coronavirus Aid Relief, and Economic Security Act (“CARES Act”) Paycheck Protection Program and Provider Relief Fund. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we collected approximately 94% of rent due from operators under Triple-net lease agreements (primarily seniors housing and post-acute care facilities). No significant rent deferrals or rent concessions have been made during the year ended December 31, 2021. We evaluate leases individually and recognize rent on a cash basis if collectibility of substantially all contractual rent payments is not probable. To the extent the prolonged impact of the COVID-19 pandemic causes operators or tenants to seek further modifications of their lease agreements, we may recognize reductions in revenue and increases in uncollectible receivables. During the early stages of the pandemic in 2020, our Outpatient Medical tenants experienced temporary medical practice closures or decreases in revenue due to government-imposed restrictions on elective medical procedures, stay at home orders or decisions by patients to delay treatments. In some instances, these factors caused tenants to seek modifications of contractual 46 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations rent obligations. We evaluated each request on a case-by-case basis to determine if a form of rent relief was warranted following an examination of the tenant's financial health, rent coverage, current operating situation and other factors. Virtually all deferred rent related to 2020 deferrals has been paid. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we have continued to collect virtually all rent due from tenants in our Outpatient Medical portfolio, with uncollected amounts primarily attributable to local jurisdictions with COVID-19 related ordinances providing temporary rent relief to tenants. Business Strategy Our primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and enhance stockholder value. We seek to pay consistent cash dividends to stockholders and create opportunities to increase dividend payments to stockholders as a result of annual increases in NOI and portfolio growth. To meet these objectives, we invest across the full spectrum of seniors housing and health care real estate and diversify our investment portfolio by property type, relationship and geographic location. Substantially all of our revenues are derived from operating lease rentals, resident fees and services and interest earned on outstanding loans receivable. These items represent our primary sources of liquidity to fund distributions and depend upon the continued ability of our obligors to make contractual rent and interest payments to us and the profitability of our operating properties. To the extent that our obligors/partners experience operating difficulties and become unable to generate sufficient cash to make payments or operating distributions to us, there could be a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. To mitigate this risk, we monitor our investments through a variety of methods determined by the type of property. Our asset management process for seniors housing properties generally includes review of monthly financial statements and other operating data for each property, review of obligor/partner creditworthiness, property inspections and review of covenant compliance relating to licensure, real estate taxes, letters of credit and other collateral. Our internal property management division manages and monitors the outpatient medical portfolio with a comprehensive process including review of tenant relations, lease expirations, the mix of health service providers, hospital/health system relationships, property performance, capital improvement needs and market conditions among other things. We evaluate the operating environment in each property’s market to determine the likely trend in operating performance of the facility. When we identify unacceptable trends, we seek to mitigate, eliminate or transfer the risk. Through these efforts, we generally aim to intervene at an early stage to address any negative trends, and in so doing, support both the collectability of revenue and the value of our investment. In addition to our asset management and research efforts, we also aim to structure our relevant investments to mitigate payment risk. Operating leases and loans are normally credit enhanced by guarantees and/or letters of credit. In addition, operating leases are typically structured as master leases and loans are generally cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized with other real estate loans, operating leases or agreements between us and the obligor and its affiliates. For the year ended December 31, 2021, resident fees and services and rental income represented 67% and 29%, respectively, of total revenues. Substantially all of our operating leases are designed with escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. Our yield on loans receivable depends upon a number of factors, including the stated interest rate, the average principal amount outstanding during the term of the loan and any interest rate adjustments. Our primary sources of cash include resident fees and services, rent and interest receipts, borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper program, public issuances of debt and equity securities, proceeds from investment dispositions and principal payments on loans receivable. Our primary uses of cash include dividend distributions, debt service payments (including principal and interest), real property investments (including acquisitions, capital expenditures, construction advances and transaction costs), loan advances, property operating expenses, general and administrative expenses and other expenses. Depending upon the availability and cost of external capital, we believe our liquidity is sufficient to fund these uses of cash. We also continuously evaluate opportunities to finance future investments. New investments are generally funded from temporary borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper program, internally generated cash and the proceeds from investment dispositions. Our investments generate cash from NOI and principal payments on loans receivable. Permanent financing for future investments, which replaces funds drawn under our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper program, has historically been provided through a combination of the issuance of public debt and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt. Depending upon market conditions, we believe that new investments will be available in the future with spreads over our cost of capital that will generate appropriate returns to our stockholders. It is also likely that investment dispositions may occur in the future. To the extent that investment dispositions exceed new investments, our revenues and cash flows from operations could be adversely affected. We expect to reinvest the proceeds from any investment dispositions in new investments. To the extent that new investment requirements exceed our available cash on-hand, we expect to borrow under our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper program. At December 31, 2021, we had $269,265,000 of cash and cash equivalents, $77,490,000 of restricted cash an d $3,675,000,000 of available borrowing capacity under our unsecured revolving credit facility. 47 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Key Transactions Capital The following summarizes key capital transactions that occurred during the year ended December 31, 2021: • In March 2021, we completed the issuance of $750,000,000 senior unsecured notes bearing interest at 2.80% with a maturity date of June 2031. • In April 2021, we repaid our $339,128,000 of our 3.75% senior unsecured notes due March 2023, $334,624,000 of our 3.95% senior unsecured notes due September 2023, and $15,000,000 of our term loan due April 2022. • In June 2021, we closed on a new $4,700,000,000 unsecured credit facility with improved pricing across our line of credit and terminated the existing unsecured credit facility. The credit facility includes $4,000,000,000 of revolving credit capacity at a borrowing rate of 77.5 basis points ("bps") over LIBOR, $500,000,000 of USD term loan capacity at a borrowing rate of 90.0 bps over LIBOR and $250,000,000 CAD term loan capacity at 90.0 bps over CDOR. • In June 2021, we repaid the remaining $845,000,000 of our term loan due April 2022. • In June 2021, we completed the issuance of $500,000,000 senior unsecured notes bearing interest at 2.05% with a maturity date of January 2029. • In July 2021, we entered into an amended and restated ATM Program (as defined below) pursuant to which we may offer and sell up to $2,500,000,000 of common stock from time to time. During 2021, we sold 34,854,598 shares of common stock under our current and previous ATM Programs via forward sale agreements which are expected to generate gross proceeds of approximately $2,820,855,000, of which 29,667,348 shares have been settled resulting in $2,385,683,000 of gross proceeds during the y ear ended December 31, 2021 . • In November 2021, we completed the issuance of $500,000,000 senior unsecured notes bearing interest at 2.75% with a maturity date of January 2032. • We extinguished $132,031,000 of secured debt at a blended average interest rate of 5.86% throughout 2021. Inve stments The following summarizes property acquisitions and joint venture investments completed during the year ended December 31, 2021 (dollars in thousands): (1) Represents amounts recorded in net real estate investments including fair value adjustments pursuant to U.S. GAAP. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. (2) Represents annualized contractual or projected NOI to be received in cash divided by investment amounts. Dispositions The following summarizes property dispositions completed during the year ended December 31, 2021 (dollars in thousands): (1) Represents pro rata proceeds received upon disposition including any seller financing. (2) Represents carrying value of net real estate assets at time of disposition. See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. (3) Represents annualized contractual income that was being received in cash at date of disposition divided by disposition proceeds. Dividends Our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend for the quarter ended December 31, 2021 of $0.61 per share. On March 8, 2022, we will pay our 203 rd consecutive quarterly dividend payment to stockholders of record on March 1, 2022. Key Performance Indicators, Trends and Uncertainties We utilize several key performance indicators to evaluate the various aspects of our business. These indicators are discussed below and relate to operating performance, credit strength and concentration risk. Management uses these key performance indicators to facilitate internal and external comparisons to our historical operating results, in making operating decisions, and for budget planning purposes. 48 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Operating Performance We believe that net income and net income attributable to common stockholders (“NICS”) per the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income are the most appropriate earnings measures. Other useful supplemental measures of our operating performance include funds from operations attributable to common stockholders (“FFO”) and consolidated net operating income (“NOI”); however, these supplemental measures are not defined by U.S. GAAP. Please refer to the section entitled “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for further discussion and reconciliations. These earnings measures are widely used by investors and analysts in the valuation, comparison and investment recommendations of companies. The following table reflects the recent historical trends of our operating performance measures for the periods presented (in thousands): Credit Strength We measure our credit strength both in terms of leverage ratios and coverage ratios. The leverage ratios indicate how much of our balance sheet capitalization is related to long-term debt, net of cash and restricted cash. The coverage ratios indicate our ability to service interest and fixed charges (interest and secured debt principal amortization). We expect to maintain capitalization ratios and coverage ratios sufficient to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile. The coverage ratios are based on adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“Adjusted EBITDA”). Please refer to the section entitled “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for further discussion and reconciliation of these measures. Leverage ratios and coverage ratios are widely used by investors, analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, investment recommendations and rating of companies. The following table reflects the recent historical trends for our credit strength measures for the periods presented: Concentration Risk We evaluate our concentration risk in terms of NOI by property mix, relationship mix and geographic mix. Concentration risk is a valuable measure in understanding what portion of our NOI could be at risk if certain sectors were to experience downturns. Property mix measures the portion of our NOI that relates to our various property types. Relationship mix measures the portion of our NOI that relates to our current top five relationships. Geographic mix measures the portion of our NOI that relates to our current top five states (or international equivalents). The following table reflects our recent historical trends of concentration risk by NOI for the years indicated below: (1) Excludes our share of investments in unconsolidated entities and non-segment/corporate NOI. Entities in which we have a joint venture with a minority partner are shown at 100% of the joint venture amount. 49 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (2) Revera owns a controlling interest in Sunrise Senior Living. We evaluate our key performance indicators in conjunction with current expectations to determine if historical trends are indicative of future results. Our expected results may not be achieved and actual results may differ materially from our expectations. Factors that may cause actual results to differ from expected results are described in more detail in “Item 1 — Business — Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” and “Item 1A — Risk Factors” and other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Management regularly monitors economic and other factors to develop strategic and tactical plans designed to improve performance and maximize our competitive position. Our ability to achieve our financial objectives is dependent upon our ability to effectively execute these plans and to appropriately respond to emerging economic and company-specific trends. Please refer to “Item 1 — Business,” “Item 1A — Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of these risk factors. Corporate Governance Maintaining investor confidence and trust is important in today’s business environment. Our Board of Directors and management are strongly committed to policies and procedures that reflect the highest level of ethical business practices. Our corporate governance guidelines provide the framework for our business operations and emphasize our commitment to increase stockholder value while meeting all applicable legal requirements. These guidelines meet the listing standards adopted by the New York Stock Exchange and are available on the Internet at www.welltower.com/investors/governance. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference only. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources and Uses of Cash Our primary sources of cash include resident fees and services, rent and interest receipts, borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper program, public issuances of debt and equity securities, proceeds from investment dispositions and principal payments on loans receivable. Our primary uses of cash include dividend distributions, debt service payments (including principal and interest), real property investments (including acquisitions, capital expenditures, construction advances and transaction costs), loan advances, property operating expenses, general and administrative expenses and other expenses. These sources and uses of cash are reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and are discussed in further detail below. The following is a summary of our sources and uses of cash flows for the periods presented (dollars in thousands): Operating Activities The changes in net cash provided from operating activities are primarily attributable to declines in revenue as a result of decreased occupancy at our Seniors Housing Operating properties, straight-line receivable reserves related to Triple-net leases during the year ended December 31, 2021 and dispositions. Please see “Results of Operations” for discussion of net income fluctuations. For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, cash flows from operations exceeded cash distributions to stockholders. Investing Activities The changes in net cash provided from/used in investing activities are primarily attributable to net changes in real property investments and dispositions, loans receivable and investments in unconsolidated entities which are summarized above in “Key Transactions.” Please refer to Notes 3 and 5 of our consolidated financial statements for additional information. The following is a summary of cash used in non-acquisition capital improvement activities for the periods presented (dollars in thousands): 50 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The change in new development is primarily due to the number and size of construction projects on-going during the relevant periods. Renovations, redevelopments and other capital improvements include expenditures to maximize property value, increase net operating income, maintain a market-competitive position and/or achieve property stabilization. Financing Activities The changes in net cash provided from/used in financing activities are primarily attributable to changes related to our long-term debt arrangements, the issuances of common stock and dividend payments which are summarized above in “Key Transactions.” Please refer to Notes 10, 11 and 14 of our consolidated financial statements for additional information. In March 2021, we completed the issuance of $750,000,000 senior unsecured notes with a maturity date of June 2031. In June 2021, we completed the issuance of $500,000,000 senior unsecured notes with a maturity date of January 2029. Net proceeds from these debt issuances were used to redeem the remaining $339,128,000 of our 3.75% senior unsecured notes due 2023, $334,624,000 of our 3.95% senior unsecured notes due 2023, and $860,000,000 remaining on our term loan due April 2022. In June 2021, we closed on a new $4,700,000,000 unsecured credit facility. The credit facility includes $4,000,000,000 of revolving credit capacity . In November 2021, we completed the issuance of $500,000,000 senior unsecured notes with a maturity date of January 2032. As of December 31, 2021, we have total near-term available liquidity of approximatel y $4.0 billion. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements At December 31, 2021, we had investments in unconsolidated entities with our ownership generally ranging from 10% to 65%. We use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate exposure. At December 31, 2021, we had 15 outstanding letter of credit obligations. Please see Notes 8, 12 and 13 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. Contractual Obligations 51 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following table summarizes our payment requirements under contractual obligations as of December 31, 2021 (in thousands): (1) Amounts represent principal amounts due and do not reflect unamortized premiums/discounts or other fair value adjustments as reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. (2) Based on foreign currency exchange rates in effect as of balance sheet date. (3) Based on variable interest rates in effect as of December 31, 2021. (4) See Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. (5) See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. Capital Structure Please refer to “Credit Strength” above for a discussion of our leverage and coverage ratio trends. Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Certain agreements require us to maintain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. As of December 31, 2021, we were in compliance in all material respects with the covenants under our debt agreements. None of our debt agreements contain provisions for acceleration which could be triggered by our debt ratings. However, under our primary unsecured credit facility, the ratings on our senior unsecured notes are used to determine the fees and interest charged. We plan to manage the company to maintain compliance with our debt covenants and with a capital structure consistent with our current profile. Any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. On May 4, 2021, we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) (1) an open-ended automatic or “universal” shelf registration statement on Form S-3 covering an indeterminate amount of future offerings of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares, warrants and units to replace our existing “universal” shelf registration statement filed with the SEC on May 17, 2018, and (2) a registration statement in connection with our enhanced dividend reinvestment plan (“DRIP”) under which we may issue up to 15,000,000 shares of common stock to replace our existing DRIP registration statement on Form S-3 filed with the SEC on May 17, 2018. As of February 4, 2022, 15,000,000 shares of common stock remained available for issuance under the DRIP registration stateme nt. On July 30, 2021, we entered into (i) an amended and restated equity distribution agreement (the “EDA”) with each of Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Barclays Capital Inc., BMO Capital Markets Corp., BNP Paribas Securities Corp., BNY Mellon Capital Markets, LLC, BofA Securities, Inc., BOK Financial Securities, Inc., Capital One Securities Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Comerica Securities, Inc., Credit Agricole Securities (USA) Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Fifth Third Securities, Inc., Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, Hancock Whitney Investment Services, Inc., Jefferies LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Loop 52 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Capital Markets LLC, Mizuho Securities USA LLC, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, MUFG Securities Americas Inc., RBC Capital Markets, LLC, Regions Securities LLC, Scotia Capital (USA) Inc., SMBC Nikko Securities America, Inc., Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Synovus Securities, Inc., TD Securities (USA) LLC, Truist Securities, Inc. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC relating to the offer and sale from time to time of up to $2,500,000,000 aggregate amount of our common stock and (ii) separate master forward sale confirmations with each of Bank of America, N.A., Bank of Montreal, The Bank of New York Mellon, Barclays Bank PLC, BNP Paribas, Citibank, N.A., Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, Jefferies LLC, JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Mizuho Markets Americas LLC, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, MUFG Securities EMEA plc, Royal Bank of Canada, The Bank of Nova Scotia, The Toronto-Dominion Bank, Truist Bank, London Branch and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association (together with the EDA, the “ATM Program”), amending and restating the ATM Program entered into on May 4, 2021 to, among other amendments, increase the total amount of shares of common stock that may be offered and sold under the ATM Program from $2,000,000,000 to $2,500,000,000, which amount excludes shares the Company has previously sold pursuant to the prior program. The A TM Program also allows us to enter into forward sale agreements. As of February 4, 2022, we had $1,876,085,000 of remaining capacity under the ATM Program, which excludes forward sales agreements outstanding for the sale of 10,924,956 shares or approximately $930,610,000 with maturity dates in 2022. We expect to physically settle the forward sales for cash proceeds. Depending upon market conditions, we anticipate issuing securities under our registration statements to invest in additional properties and to repay borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper program. In connection with the filing of the new “universal” shelf registration statement, the Company also filed with the SEC two prospectus supplements that will continue offerings that were previously covered by prospectus supplements and the accompanying prospectus to the prior registration statement relating to: (i) the registration and possible issuance of up to 620,731 shares of the Company’s common stock (the “DownREIT Shares”), that may be issued from time to time if, and to the extent that, certain holders of Class A units (the “DownREIT Units”) of HCN G&L DownREIT, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the “DownREIT”), tender such DownREIT Units for redemption by the DownREIT, and HCN DownREIT Member, LLC, a majority-owned indirect subsidiary of the Company (including its permitted successors and assigns, the “Managing Member”), or a designated affiliate of the Managing Member, elects to assume the redemption obligations of the DownREIT and to satisfy all or a portion of the redemption consideration by issuing DownREIT Shares to the holders instead of or in addition to paying a cash amount; and (ii) the registration and possible issuance of up to 475,327 shares common stock (the “DownREIT II Shares”), that may be issued from time to time if, and to the extent that, certain holders of Class A units (the “DownREIT II Units,” and collectively with the DownREIT Units, the “Units”) of HCN G&L DownREIT II LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the “DownREIT II”), tender such DownREIT II Units for redemption by the DownREIT II, and the Managing Member, or a designated affiliate of the Managing Member, elects to assume the redemption obligations of the DownREIT II and to satisfy all or a portion of the redemption consideration by issuing DownREIT II Shares to the holders instead of or in addition to paying a cash amount. Results of Operations Summary Our primary sources of revenue include resident fees and services, rent and interest income. Our primary expenses include property operating expenses, depreciation and amortization, interest expense, general and administrative expenses, and other expenses. We evaluate our business and make resource allocations on our three business segments: Seniors Housing Operating, Triple-net and Outpatient Medical. The primary performance measures for our properties are NOI and same store NOI (SSNOI) and other supplemental measures include FFO and Adjusted EBITDA, which are further discussed below. Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information and reconciliations related to these supplemental measures. This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses 2021 and 2020 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2021 and 2020. Discussions of 2019 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2020 and 2019 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020. The following is a summary of our results of operations for the periods presented (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts): 53 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following table represents the changes in outstanding common stock for the period from January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2021 (in thousands): During the past three years, inflation has not significantly affected our earnings because of the moderate inflation rate. Additionally, a portion of our earnings are derived primarily from long-term investments with predictable rates of return. These investments are mainly financed with a combination of equity, senior unsecured notes, secured debt and borrowings under our primary unsecured credit facility. During inflationary periods, which generally are accompanied by rising interest rates, our ability to grow may be adversely affected because the yield on new investments may increase at a slower rate than new borrowing costs. Seniors Housing Operating The following is a summary of our SSNOI at Welltower's Share for the Seniors Housing Operating segment (dollars in thousands): (1) Rel ates to 489 properties for the QTD Pool and 477 properties for the YTD Pool. Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information and reconciliations. The following is a summary of our results of operations for the Seniors Housing Operating segment for the years presented (dollars in thousands): 54 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (1) See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. Resident fees and services and property operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased compared to the prior year primarily due to acquisitions, including the acquisition of the Holiday Retirement portfolio on July 30, 2021 for a total purchase price of $1.6 billion. The increases were partially offset by decreases in spot occupancy across the portfolio due to the COVID-19 pandemic and property dispositions. Spot occupancy remains below pre-pandemic levels but has steadily increased in recent months, with 94% of communities open for new admissions and nearly all communities allowing visitors, in-person tours and communal dining and activities as of December 31, 2021. Rapid distribution and a high acceptance rate of COVID-19 vaccinations by residents within assisted living and memory care facilities in the U.S. and U.K. have resulted in a significant decrease in total resident case counts across the portfolio from peak levels in mid-January 2021, however, resident case counts have increased in December 2021 as a result of highly transmissible variants. As of December 31, 2021, occupancy has increased approximately 510 bps to 77.7% since the pandemic-low of 72.6% on March 12, 2021. Quarterly spot occupancy rates through December 31, 2021 are as follows: (1) Spot occupancy represents approximate month end occupancy at our share for 546 properties in operation as of December 31, 2020, including unconsolidated properties but excluding acquisitions, executed dispositions, development conversions and one property closed for redevelopment. (2) Sequential occupancy changes are based on actual spot occupancy and may not recalculate due to rounding. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the U.S. and U.K. portfolios reported spot occupancy gains of approximately 490 bps and 80 bps, respectively. Canada reported a spot occupancy decline of approximately 290 bps. On March 27, 2020, the federal government enacted CARES Act to provide financial aid to individuals, businesses, and state and local governments. During the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we received government grants under the CARES Act primarily to cover increased expenses and lost revenue during the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as under similar programs in the U.K. and Canada. Grant income is recognized when there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and the Company will comply with all conditions attached to the grant. Additionally, grants are recognized over the periods in which the Company recognizes the increased expenses and lost revenue the grants are intended to defray. For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 we recognized $97,933,000 and $31,927,000, respectively, of government grant income as a reduction to property operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. Additionally, for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we recognized $4,642,000 and $3,014,000, respectively, of government grant income in other income. The amount of qualifying expenditures and lost revenue exceeded grant income recognized and the Company believes it has complied and will continue to comply with all grant conditions. 55 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Property-level operating expenses associated with the COVID-19 pandemic relating to our Seniors Housing Operating portfolio totaled $63,681,000 and $110,719,000 for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. These expenses were incurred as a result of the introduction of public health measures and other regulations affecting our properties, as well as additional health and safety measures adopted by us and our operators related to the COVID-19 pandemic, including increases in labor and property cleaning expenses and expenditures related to our efforts to procure personal protective equipment ("PPE") and supplies, net of reimbursements. Specifically in 2021, we incurred elevated labor expenses resulting from the increased utilization of contract labor due to the rise in occupancy and a challenging labor market. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recorded impairment charges of $22,317,000 related to two held for use properties in which the carrying value exceeded the estimated fair value. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recorded impairment charges of $100,741,000 related to 15 held for sale or sold properties and six held for use properties. Transaction costs related to asset acquisitions are capitalized as a component of the purchase price. The fluctuation in other expenses is primarily due to the timing of noncapitalizable transaction costs associated with acquisitions and operator transitions. Changes in the gain on sales of properties are related to the volume and timing of property sales and the sales prices. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recognized a gain on real estate disposition of $312,249,000 related to an 11 property U.S. portfolio. Depreciation and amortization fluctuates as a result of acquisitions, disposition and transitions. To the extent we acquire or dispose of additional properties in the future, our provision for depreciation and amortization will change accordingly. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we completed two Seniors Housing Operating construction projects representing $117,386,000 or $553,573 per unit. The following is a summary of our consolidated Seniors Housing Operating construction projects, excluding expansions, pending as of December 31, 2021 (dollars in thousands): Interest expense represents secured debt interest expense, which fluctuates based on the net effect and timing of assumptions, segment transitions, fluctuations in foreign currency rates, extinguishments and principal amortizations. The fluctuations in loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt is primarily attributable to the volume of extinguishments and terms of the related secured debt. The following is a summary of our Seniors Housing Operating segment property secured debt principal activity (dollars in thousands): 56 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The majority of our Seniors Housing Operating properties are formed through partnership interests. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests represents our partners’ share of net income (loss) related to joint ventures. The decrease compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 relates primarily to our partners' share of gains on real estate dispositions during that year. Triple-net The following is a summary of our SSNOI at Welltower's Share for the Triple-net segment (dollars in thousands): (1) Relate s to 554 properties for the QTD Pool and 547 properties for the YTD Pool. Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information and reconciliations. The following is a summary of our results of operations for the Triple-net segment for the years presented (dollars in thousands): (1) See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. 57 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Rental income has increased primarily due to the timing of the establishment of reserves for straight-line rent receivable balances relating to leases for which collection of substantially all contractual lease payments is no longer deemed probable. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recorded reserves for previously recognized straight-line rent receivables of $49,241,000. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recorded $146,508,000, which included $91,025,000 related to Genesis Healthcare ("Genesis") whom noted substantial doubt as to their ability to continue as a going concern. Certain of our leases contain annual rental escalators that are contingent upon changes in the Consumer Price Index and/or changes in the gross operating revenues of the tenant’s properties. These escalators are not fixed, so no straight-line rent is recorded; however, rental income is recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. If gross operating revenues at our facilities and/or the Consumer Price Index do not increase, a portion of our revenues may not continue to increase. For the three months ended December 31, 2021, we had ten leases with rental rate increasers ranging from 2.00% to 5.94% in our Triple-net portfolio. Our Triple-net operators are experiencing similar impacts on occupancy and operating costs due to the COVID-19 pandemic as described above with respect to our Seniors Housing Operating properties. However, long-term/post-acute facilities have generally experienced a higher degree of occupancy declines, which  in some cases impacted the ability of our Triple-net operators to make contractual rent payments to us. However, many of our Triple-net operators received funds under the CARES Act Paycheck Protection Program and Provider Relief Fund. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we collected approximately 94% of rent due from operators under Triple-net lease agreements (primarily seniors housing and post-acute care facilities). No significant deferrals or rent concessions have been made. We evaluate leases individually and recognize rent on a cash basis if collectibility of substantially all contractual rent payments is not probable. Depreciation and amortization fluctuate as a result of the acquisitions, dispositions and transitions of triple-net properties. To the extent we acquire or dispose of additional properties in the future, our provision for depreciation and amortization will change accordingly. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recognized a provision for loan losses under the current expected credit losses accounting standard, primarily related to the initial recognition of the £540 million of senior loan financings to affiliates of Safanad as part of the recapitalization of its investment in HC-One Group during the second quarter. The increase to interest income is primarily driven by interest recognized on this loan funding. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2020, we recognized a provision for loan losses of $90,563,000, of which $80,873,000 represents additional reserves as a result of the current collateral estimate related to the Genesis outstanding loans. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recorded impairment charges of $26,579,000 related to four held for sale or sold properties and two held for use properties. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recorded impairment charges of $34,867,000 related to one held for sale and four held for use properties. Transaction costs related to asset acquisitions are capitalized as a component of purchase price. The fluctuation in other expenses is primarily due to noncapitalizable transaction costs from acquisitions and segment transitions. Changes in the gain on sales of properties are related to the volume and timing of property sales and the sales prices. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we completed one Triple-net construction project representing $22,990,000 or $280,366 per unit. The following is a summary of our consolidated Triple-net construction projects, excluding expansions, pending as of December 31, 2021 (dollars in thousands): During the year ended December 31, 2021, loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net is primarily attributable to the mark-to-market of the equity warrants received as part of the Safanad/HC-One transaction that closed in the second quarter. In addition, the mark-to-market adjustment on our Genesis available-for-sale investment is reflected in all periods. Interest expense represents secured debt interest expense and related fees. The change in secured debt interest expense is due to the net effect and timing of assumptions, segment transitions, fluctuations in foreign currency rates, extinguishments and principal amortizations. The following is a summary of our Triple-net secured debt principal activity for the periods presented (dollars in thousands): 58 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations A portion of our Triple-net properties were formed through partnerships. Income or loss from unconsolidated entities represents our share of net income or losses from partnerships where we are the noncontrolling partner. The increase in income from unconsolidated entities during the year ended December 31, 2021 is primarily related to the reserves established on straight-line rent receivable balances at unconsolidated Genesis entities in the prior year. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests represents our partners’ share of net income relating to those partnerships where we are the controlling partner. Outpatient Medical The following is a summary of our SSNOI at Welltower Share for the Outpatient Medical segment (dollars in thousands): (1) Rel ates to 350 properties for the QTD Pool and 331 properties for the YTD Pool. Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information and reconciliations. The following is a summary of our results of operations for the Outpatient Medical segment for the periods presented (dollars in thousands): (1) See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. 59 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Rental income has decreased due primarily to significant dispositions that closed during 2020. Certain of our leases contain annual rental escalators that are contingent upon changes in the Consumer Price Index. These escalators are not fixed, so no straight-line rent is recorded; however, rental income is recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. If the Consumer Price Index does not increase, a portion of our revenues may not continue to increase. Our leases could renew above or below current rental rates, resulting in an increase or decrease in rental income. For the three months ended December 31, 2021, our consolidated Outpatient Medical portfolio signed 143,266 square feet of new leases and 203,285 square feet of renewals. The weighted-average term of these leases wa s seven y ears, with a rate of $36.65 per square foot and tenant improvement and lease commission costs of $51.78 per square foot. Substantially all of these leases contain an annual fixed or contingent escalation rent structure ranging from 1.0% to 10.0%. We have collected virtually all rent due through the year ended December 31, 2021, with uncollected amounts primarily attributable to local jurisdictions with COVID-19 related ordinances providing temporary rent relief to tenants. We evaluate leases individually and recognize rent on a cash basis if collectibility of substantially all contractual rent payments is not probable. The increase in interest income for the year ended December 31, 2021 is due primarily to a $178,207,000 first mortgage initiated in August 2020, which was subsequently repaid in full in June of 2021, resulting in the reversal of the previously established allowance for credit losses. The fluctuation in property operating expenses and depreciation and amortization are primarily attributable to the significant dispositions that occurred in 2020. To the extent that we acquire or dispose of additional properties in the future, these amounts will change accordingly. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recognized an impairment charge of $2,211,000 related to one held for sale property. Transaction costs related to asset acquisitions are capitalized as a component of purchase price. The fluctuation in other expenses is primarily due to noncapitalizable transaction costs. Changes in gains/losses on sales of properties are related to volume of property sales and the sales prices. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we completed three Outpatient Medical construction projects representing $125,179,000 or $605 per square foot. The following is a summary of our consolidated Outpatient Medical construction projects, excluding expansions, pending as of December 31, 2021 (dollars in thousands): Total interest expense represents secured debt interest expense. The change in secured debt interest expense is primarily due to the net effect and timing of assumptions, extinguishments and principal amortizations. The following is a summary of our Outpatient Medical secured debt principal activity for the periods presented (dollars in thousands): A portion of our Outpatient Medical properties were formed through partnerships. Income or loss from unconsolidated entities represents our share of net income or losses from partnerships where we are the noncontrolling partner. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests represents our partners’ share of net income or loss relating to those partnerships where we are the controlling partner. 60 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Non-Segment/Corporate The following is a summary of our results of operations for the Non-Segment/Corporate activities for the periods presented (dollars in thousands): (1) See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. Property operating expenses represent insurance costs related to our captive insurance company formed as of July 1, 2020, which acts as a direct insurer of property level insurance coverage for our portfolio. The following is a summary of our Non-Segment/Corporate interest expense for the periods presented (dollars in thousands): The change in interest expense on senior unsecured notes is due to the net effect of issuances and extinguishments, as well as the movement in foreign exchange rates and related hedge activity. Please refer to Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. The change in interest expense on our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper program is due primarily to the net effect and timing of draws, paydowns and variable interest rate changes. Please refer to Note 10 of our consolidated financial statements for additional information. Loan expenses represent the amortization of costs incurred in connection with senior unsecured notes issuances. The loss on extinguishment recognized during the year ended December 31, 2021 is due primarily to the early extinguishment of $339,128,000 of our 3.75% senior unsecured notes due March 2023 and $334,624,000 of our 3.95% senior unsecured notes due September 2023. The loss on extinguishment recognized during the year ended December 31, 2020 is due primarily to the early extinguishment of $160,872,000 of our 3.75% senior unsecured notes due March 2023 and $265,376,000 of our 3.95% senior unsecured notes due September 2023. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 were 2.67%, 2.79% and 2.47%, respectively. Other expenses for all years include severance-related costs associated with the departure of certain executive officers and key employees. The provision for income taxes primarily relates to state taxes, foreign taxes and taxes based on income generated by entities that are structured as TRSs. Other Non-GAAP Financial Measures We believe that net income and net income attributable to common stockholders, as defined by U.S. GAAP, are the most appropriate earnings measurements. However, we consider FFO, NOI, SSNOI, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA to be useful supplemental measures of our operating performance. Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time as evidenced by the provision for depreciation. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and analysts have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to 61 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations be insufficient. In response, the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”) created funds from operations attributable to common stockholders (“FFO”) as a supplemental measure of operating performance for REITs that excludes historical cost depreciation from net income. FFO, as defined by NAREIT, means NICS, computed in accordance with U.S. GAAP, excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate and impairment of depreciable assets, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated entities and noncontrolling interests. NOI is used to evaluate the operating performance of our properties. We define NOI as total revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property operating expenses. Property operating expenses represent costs associated with managing, maintaining and servicing tenants for our properties. These expenses include, but are not limited to, property-related payroll and benefits, property management fees paid to operators, marketing, housekeeping, food service, maintenance, utilities, property taxes and insurance. General and administrative expenses represent costs unrelated to property operations. These expenses include, but are not limited to, payroll and benefits, professional services, office expenses and depreciation of corporate fixed assets. Same store NOI (“SSNOI”) is used to evaluate the operating performance of our properties using a consistent population which controls for changes in the composition of our portfolio. We believe the drivers of property level NOI for both consolidated properties and unconsolidated properties are generally the same and therefore, we evaluate SSNOI based on our ownership interest in each property ("Welltower Share"). To arrive at Welltower's Share, NOI is adjusted by adding our minority ownership share related to unconsolidated properties and by subtracting the minority partners' noncontrolling ownership interests for consolidated properties. We do not control investments in unconsolidated properties and while we consider disclosures at Welltower Share to be useful, they may not accurately depict the legal and economic implications of our joint venture arrangements and should be used with caution. As used herein, same store is generally defined as those revenue-generating properties in the portfolio for the relevant year-over-year reporting periods. Acquisitions and development conversions are included in SSNOI five full quarters or eight full quarters after acquisition or being placed into service for the QTD Pool and the YTD Pool, respectively. Land parcels, loans and sub-leases, as well as any properties sold or classified as held for sale during the respective periods are excluded from SSNOI. Redeveloped properties (including major refurbishments of a Seniors Housing Operating property where 20% or more of units are simultaneously taken out of commission for 30 days or more or Outpatient Medical properties undergoing a change in intended use) are excluded from SSNOI until five full quarters or eight full quarters post completion of the redevelopment for the QTD Pool and YTD Pool, respectively. Properties undergoing operator transitions and/or segment transitions are also excluded from SSNOI until five full quarters or eight full quarters post completion of the transition for the QTD Pool and YTD Pool, respectively. In addition, properties significantly impacted by force majeure, acts of God, or other extraordinary adverse events are excluded from SSNOI until five full quarters or eight full quarters after the properties are placed back into service for the QTD Pool and YTD Pool, respectively. SSNOI excludes non-cash NOI and includes adjustments to present consistent ownership percentages and to translate Canadian properties and U.K. properties using a consistent exchange rate. We believe NOI and SSNOI provide investors relevant and useful information because they measure the operating performance of our properties at the property level on an unleveraged basis. We use NOI and SSNOI to make decisions about resource allocations and to assess the property level performance of our properties. EBITDA is defined as earnings (net income) before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA excluding unconsolidated entities and including adjustments for stock-based compensation expense, provision for loan losses, gains/losses on extinguishment of debt, gains/loss/impairments on properties, gains/losses on derivatives and financial instruments, other expenses, other impairment charges and other adjustments as deemed appropriate. We believe that EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, along with net income, are important supplemental measures because they provide additional information to assess and evaluate the performance of our operations. We primarily use these measures to determine our interest coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA divided by total interest, and our fixed charge coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA divided by fixed charges. Fixed charges include total interest and secured debt principal amortization. Covenants in our unsecured senior notes and primary credit facility contain financial ratios based on a definition of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA that is specific to those agreements. Our leverage ratios are defined as the proportion of net debt to total capitalization and include book capitalization, undepreciated book capitalization and market capitalization. Book capitalization represents the sum of net debt (defined as total long-term debt, excluding operating lease liabilities, less cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash), total equity and redeemable noncontrolling interests. Undepreciated book capitalization represents book capitalization adjusted for accumulated depreciation and amortization. Market capitalization represents book capitalization adjusted for the fair market value of our common stock. Our supplemental reporting measures and similarly entitled financial measures are widely used by investors, equity and debt analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies. Management uses these financial measures to facilitate internal and external comparisons to our historical operating results and in making operating decisions. Additionally, these measures are utilized by the Board of Directors to evaluate management. None of our supplemental measures represent net income or cash flow provided from operating activities as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternative measures of profitability or liquidity. Finally, the supplemental measures, as defined by us, may not be comparable to similarly entitled items reported by other real estate investment trusts or other companies. 62 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The table below reflects the reconciliation of FFO to NICS, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods presented. Noncontrolling interest and unconsolidated entity amounts represent adjustments to reflect our share of depreciation and amortization, gains/loss on real estate dispositions and impairment of assets. Amounts are in thousands except for per share data. The following tables reflect the reconciliation of consolidated NOI to net income, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the years presented. Dollar amounts are in thousands. 63 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is a reconciliation of the properties included in our QTD Pool and YTD Pool for SSNOI: 64 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is a reconciliation of our consolidated NOI to same store NOI for the periods presented for the respective pools. Dollar amounts are in thousands. 65 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The table below reflects the reconciliation of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA to net income, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods presented. Dollars are in thousands. (1) Certain severance-related costs are included in stock-based compensation and excluded from other expenses. (2) Represents $27,988,000 of revenue and $28,748,000 of property operating expenses associated with a leasehold portfolio interest relating to 26 properties assumed by a wholly-owned affiliate in conjunction with the Holiday Retirement transaction. Subsequent to the initial transaction, we purchased eight of the leased properties and one of the properties was sold by the landlord and removed from the lease. No rent will be paid in excess of net cash flow relating to the leasehold properties and therefore, the net impact has been excluded from Adjusted EBITDA. (3) Represents casualty losses, net of any insurance recoveries. (4) Represents reserve for straight-line rent receivables balances relating to leases placed on cash recognition. Our leverage ratios include book capitalization, undepreciated book capitalization and market capitalization. Book capitalization represents the sum of net debt (defined as total long-term debt less cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash), total equity and redeemable noncontrolling interests. Undepreciated book capitalization represents book capitalization adjusted for accumulated depreciation and amortization. Market capitalization represents book capitalization adjusted for the fair market value of our common stock. Our leverage ratios are defined as the proportion of net debt to total capitalization. The table below reflects the reconciliation of our leverage ratios to our balance sheets for the periods presented. Amounts are in thousands, except share price. 66 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (1) Amounts include senior unsecured notes, secured debt and lease liabilities related to finance leases, as reflected on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Operating lease liabilities related to the ASC 842 adoption are excluded. (2) Includes amounts attributable to both redeemable noncontrolling interests and noncontrolling interests as reflected on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Critical Accounting Policies & Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires us to make estimates and assumptions. Management considers an accounting estimate or assumption critical if: • the nature of the estimates or assumptions is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to change; and • the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material. Management has discussed the development and selection of its critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Management believes the current assumptions and other considerations used to estimate amounts reflected in our consolidated financial statements are appropriate and are not reasonably likely to change in the future. However, since these estimates require assumptions to be made that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made, they bear the risk of change. If actual experience differs from the assumptions and other considerations used in estimating amounts reflected in our consolidated financial statements, the resulting changes could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. Please refer to Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for further information on significant accounting policies that impact us and for the impact of new accounting standards, including accounting pronouncements that were issued but not yet adopted by us. 67 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following table presents information about our critical accounting policies and estimates: 68 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 69