********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 The reports, filings, and other public announcements of Williams may contain or incorporate by reference statements that do not directly or exclusively relate to historical facts. Such statements are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. These forward-looking statements relate to anticipated financial performance, management’s plans and objectives for future operations, business prospects, outcomes of regulatory proceedings, market conditions, and other matters. We make these forward-looking statements in reliance on the safe harbor protections provided under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in this report that address activities, events, or developments that we expect, believe, or anticipate will exist or may occur in the future, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can be identified by various forms of words such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “seeks,” “could,” “may,” “should,” “continues,” “estimates,” “expects,” “forecasts,” “intends,” “might,” “goals,” “objectives,” “targets,” “planned,” “potential,” “projects,” “scheduled,” “will,” “assumes,” “guidance,” “outlook,” “in-service date,” or other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on management’s beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to management and include, among others, statements regarding: • Levels of dividends to Williams stockholders; • Future credit ratings of Williams and its affiliates; • Amounts and nature of future capital expenditures; • Expansion and growth of our business and operations; • Expected in-service dates for capital projects; • Financial condition and liquidity; • Business strategy; • Cash flow from operations or results of operations; • Seasonality of certain business components; • Natural gas, natural gas liquids, and crude oil prices, supply, and demand; • Demand for our services. Forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions, uncertainties, and risks that could cause future events or results to be materially different from those stated or implied in this report. Many of the factors that will determine these results are beyond our ability to control or predict. Specific factors that could cause actual results to differ from results contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: • Availability of supplies, market demand, and volatility of prices; • Development and rate of adoption of alternative energy sources; • The impact of existing and future laws and regulations, the regulatory environment, environmental matters, and litigation, as well as our ability and the ability of other energy companies with whom we conduct or seek to conduct business, to obtain necessary permits and approvals, and our ability to achieve favorable rate proceeding outcomes; • Our exposure to the credit risk of our customers and counterparties; 27 • Our ability to acquire new businesses and assets and successfully integrate those operations and assets into existing businesses as well as successfully expand our facilities and consummate asset sales on acceptable terms; • Whether we are able to successfully identify, evaluate, and timely execute our capital projects and investment opportunities; • The strength and financial resources of our competitors and the effects of competition; • The amount of cash distributions from and capital requirements of our investments and joint ventures in which we participate; • Whether we will be able to effectively execute our financing plan; • Increasing scrutiny and changing expectations from stakeholders with respect to our environmental, social, and governance practices; • The physical and financial risks associated with climate change; • The impacts of operational and developmental hazards and unforeseen interruptions; • The risks resulting from outbreaks or other public health crises; • Risks associated with weather and natural phenomena, including climate conditions and physical damage to our facilities; • Acts of terrorism, cybersecurity incidents, and related disruptions; • Our costs and funding obligations for defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans; • Changes in maintenance and construction costs, as well as our ability to obtain sufficient construction- related inputs, including skilled labor; • Inflation, interest rates, and general economic conditions (including future disruptions and volatility in the global credit markets and the impact of these events on customers and suppliers); • Risks related to financing, including restrictions stemming from debt agreements, future changes in credit ratings as determined by nationally recognized credit rating agencies, and the availability and cost of capital; • The ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and other oil exporting nations to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls and the impact on domestic production; • Changes in the current geopolitical situation, including the Russian invasion of Ukraine and conflicts in the Middle East including between Israel and Hamas and conflicts involving Iran and its proxy forces; • Changes in U.S. governmental administration and policies; • Whether we are able to pay current and expected levels of dividends; • Additional risks described in our filings with the SEC. Given the uncertainties and risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligations to, and do not intend to, update the above list or announce publicly the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments. In addition to causing our actual results to differ, the factors listed above and referred to below may cause our intentions to change from those statements of intention set forth in this report. Such changes in our intentions may also cause our results to differ. We may change our intentions, at any time and without notice, based upon changes in such factors, our assumptions, or otherwise. 28 Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, we caution that there are important factors, in addition to those listed above, that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors are described in the following section. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information in this report. Each of these factors could adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and, in some cases, our reputation. The occurrence of any of such risks could also adversely affect the value of an investment in our securities. Risks Related to Our Business The financial condition of our natural gas transportation and midstream businesses is dependent on the continued availability of natural gas supplies in the supply basins that we access and demand for those supplies in the markets we serve. Our ability to maintain and expand our natural gas transportation and midstream businesses depends on the level of drilling and production predominantly by third parties in our supply basins. Production from existing wells and natural gas supply basins with access to our pipeline and gathering systems will naturally decline over time. The amount of natural gas reserves underlying these existing wells may also be less than anticipated, and the rate at which production from these reserves declines may be greater than anticipated. We do not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas reserves connected to our systems and processing facilities. Accordingly, we do not have independent estimates of total reserves dedicated to our systems or the anticipated life of such reserves. In addition, low prices for natural gas, regulatory limitations, including permitting and environmental regulations, or the lack of available capital have, and may continue to, adversely affect the development and production of existing or additional natural gas reserves and the installation of gathering, storage, and pipeline transportation facilities. The import and export of natural gas supplies may also be affected by such conditions. Low natural gas prices in one or more of our existing supply basins, whether caused by a lack of infrastructure or otherwise, could also result in depressed natural gas production in such basins and limit the supply of natural gas made available to us. The competition for natural gas supplies to serve other markets could also reduce the amount of natural gas supply for our customers. A failure to obtain access to sufficient natural gas supplies will adversely impact our ability to maximize the capacities of our gathering, transportation, and processing facilities. Demand for our services is dependent on the demand for gas in the markets we serve. Alternative fuel sources such as electricity, coal, fuel oils, or nuclear energy, as well as technological advances and renewable sources of energy, could reduce demand for natural gas in our markets and have an adverse effect on our business. Governmentally imposed constraints, such as prohibitions on natural gas hookups in newly constructed buildings and the recently announced permit freeze for new LNG export projects, could also artificially limit new demand for natural gas. A failure to obtain access to sufficient natural gas supplies or a reduction in demand for our services in the markets we serve could result in impairments of our assets and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Prices for natural gas, NGLs, oil, and other commodities, are volatile and this volatility has and could continue to adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, access to capital, and ability to maintain or grow our businesses. Our revenues, operating results, future rate of growth, and the value of certain components of our businesses depend primarily upon the prices of natural gas, NGLs, oil, or other commodities, and the differences between prices of these commodities and could be materially adversely affected by an extended period of low commodity prices, or a decline in commodity prices. Price volatility has and could continue to impact both the amount we receive for our products and services and the volume of products and services we sell. Prices affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. Price volatility has had and could continue to have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 29 The markets for natural gas, NGLs, oil, and other commodities are likely to continue to be volatile. Wide fluctuations in prices might result from one or more factors beyond our control, including: • Imbalances in supply and demand whether rising from worldwide or domestic supplies of and demand for natural gas, NGLs, oil, and related commodities; • Geopolitical turmoil in the Middle East, Eastern Europe, and other producing regions; • The activities of OPEC and other countries, whether acting independently of or informally aligned with OPEC, which have significant oil, natural gas or other commodity production capabilities, including Russia; • The level of consumer demand; • The price and availability of other types of fuels or feedstocks; • The availability of pipeline capacity; • Supply disruptions, including plant outages and transportation disruptions; • The price and quantity of foreign imports and domestic exports of natural gas and oil; • Domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • The credit of participants in the markets where products are bought and sold. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and counterparties, and our credit risk management will not be able to completely eliminate such risk. We are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our customers and counterparties in the ordinary course of our business. Generally, our customers are rated investment grade, are otherwise considered creditworthy, are required to make prepayments or provide security to satisfy credit concerns, or are dependent upon us, in some cases without a readily available alternative, to provide necessary services. However, our credit procedures and policies cannot completely eliminate customer and counterparty credit risk. Our customers and counterparties include industrial customers, local distribution companies, natural gas producers, and marketers whose creditworthiness may be suddenly and disparately impacted by, among other factors, commodity price volatility, deteriorating energy market conditions, and public and regulatory opposition to energy producing activities. In a low commodity price environment, certain of our customers have been or could be negatively impacted, causing them significant economic stress resulting, in some cases, in a customer bankruptcy filing or an effort to renegotiate our contracts. To the extent one or more of our key customers commences bankruptcy proceedings, our contracts with such customers may be subject to rejection under applicable provisions of the United States Bankruptcy Code or, if we so agree, may be renegotiated. Further, during any such bankruptcy proceeding, prior to assumption, rejection, or renegotiation of such contracts, the bankruptcy court may temporarily authorize the payment of value for our services less than contractually required, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. If we fail to adequately assess the creditworthiness of existing or future customers and counterparties or otherwise do not take sufficient mitigating actions, including obtaining sufficient collateral, deterioration in their creditworthiness and any resulting increase in nonpayment and/or nonperformance by them could cause us to write down or write off accounts receivable. Such write-downs or write-offs could negatively affect our operating results for the period in which they occur, and, if significant, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We face opposition to operation and expansion of our pipelines and facilities from various individuals and groups. We have experienced, and we anticipate that we will continue to face, opposition to the operation and expansion of our pipelines and facilities from governmental officials, environmental groups, landowners, tribal groups, local groups, and other advocates. In some instances, we encounter opposition that disfavors hydrocarbon-based energy supplies regardless of practical implementation or financial considerations. Opposition to our operation and expansion can take many forms, including the delay or denial of required governmental permits, organized protests, attempts to block or sabotage our operations, intervention in regulatory or administrative proceedings involving our 30 assets, or lawsuits or other actions designed to prevent, disrupt, or delay the operation or expansion of our assets and business. In addition, acts of sabotage or eco-terrorism could cause significant damage or injury to people, property, or the environment or lead to extended interruptions of our operations. Any such event that delays or prevents the expansion of our business, that interrupts the revenues generated by our operations, or which causes us to make significant expenditures not covered by insurance, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to grow or effectively manage our growth. As part of our growth strategy, we consider acquisition opportunities and engage in significant capital projects. We have both a project lifecycle process and an investment evaluation process. These are processes we use to identify, evaluate, and execute on acquisition opportunities and capital projects. We may not always have sufficient and accurate information to identify and value potential opportunities and risks or our investment evaluation process may be incomplete or flawed. Regarding potential acquisitions, suitable acquisition candidates or assets may not be available on terms and conditions we find acceptable or, where multiple parties are trying to acquire an acquisition candidate or assets, we may not be chosen as the acquirer. If we are able to acquire a targeted business, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired businesses and realize anticipated benefits in a timely manner. Our growth may also be dependent upon the construction of new natural gas gathering, transportation, compression, processing, or treating pipelines and facilities, NGL transportation, or fractionation or storage facilities as well as the expansion of existing facilities. Additional risks associated with construction may include the inability to obtain rights-of-way, skilled labor, equipment, materials, permits, and other required inputs in a timely manner such that projects are completed, on time or at all, and the risk that construction cost overruns, including due to inflation, could cause total project costs to exceed budgeted costs. Additional risks associated with growing our business include, among others, that: • Changing circumstances and deviations in variables could negatively impact our investment analysis, including our projections of revenues, earnings, and cash flow relating to potential investment targets, resulting in outcomes that are materially different than anticipated; • We could be required to contribute additional capital to support acquired businesses or assets, and we may assume liabilities that were not disclosed to us, that exceed our estimates and for which contractual protections are either unavailable or prove inadequate; • Acquisitions could disrupt our ongoing business, distract management, divert financial and operational resources from existing operations, and make it difficult to maintain our current business standards, controls, and procedures; • Acquisitions and capital projects may require substantial new capital, including the issuance of debt or equity, and we may not be able to access credit or capital markets or obtain acceptable terms. If realized, any of these risks could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, including the possible impairment of our assets, or cash flows. Our industry is highly competitive and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our business and operating results. We have numerous competitors in all aspects of our businesses, and additional competitors may enter our markets. Any current or future competitor that delivers natural gas, NGLs, or other commodities into the areas that we operate could offer transportation services that are more desirable to shippers than those we provide because of price, location, facilities, or other factors. In addition, current or potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or have greater financial resources than we do, which could affect our ability to make strategic investments or acquisitions. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new laws or regulations or emerging technologies or to devote greater resources to the construction, expansion, or refurbishment of their facilities than we can. Failure to successfully compete against current and future competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 31 We do not own 100 percent of the equity interests of certain subsidiaries, including the Nonconsolidated Entities, which may limit our ability to operate and control these subsidiaries. Certain operations, including the Nonconsolidated Entities, are conducted through arrangements that may limit our ability to operate and control these operations. The operations of our current non-wholly-owned subsidiaries, including the Nonconsolidated Entities, are conducted in accordance with their organizational documents. We anticipate that we will enter into more such arrangements, including through new joint venture structures or new Nonconsolidated Entities. We may have limited operational flexibility in such current and future arrangements, and we may not be able to control the timing or amount of cash distributions received. In certain cases: • We cannot control the amount of cash reserves determined to be necessary to operate the business, which reduces cash available for distributions; • We cannot control the amount of capital expenditures that we are required to fund and we are dependent on third parties to fund their required share of capital expenditures; • We may be subject to restrictions or limitations on our ability to sell or transfer our interests in the jointly owned assets; • We may be forced to offer rights of participation to other joint venture participants in the area of mutual interest; • We have limited ability to influence or control certain day to day activities affecting the operations; • We may have additional obligations, such as required capital contributions, that are important to the success of the operations. In addition, conflicts of interest may arise between us, on the one hand, and other interest owners, on the other hand. If such conflicts of interest arise, we may not have the ability to control the outcome with respect to the matter in question. Disputes between us and other interest owners may also result in delays, litigation, or operational impasses. The risks described above or the failure to continue such arrangements could adversely affect our ability to conduct the operations that are the subject of such arrangements which could, in turn, negatively affect our business, growth strategy, financial condition, and results of operations. We may not be able to replace, extend, or add additional customer contracts or contracted volumes on favorable terms, or at all, which could affect our financial condition, the amount of cash available to pay dividends, and our ability to grow. We rely on a limited number of customers and producers for a significant portion of our revenues and supply of natural gas and NGLs. Although many of our customers and suppliers are subject to long-term contracts, if we are unable to replace or extend such contracts, add additional customers, or otherwise increase the contracted volumes of natural gas provided to us by current producers, in each case on favorable terms, if at all, our financial condition, growth plans, and the amount of cash available to pay dividends could be adversely affected. Our ability to replace, extend, or add additional customer or supplier contracts, or increase contracted volumes of natural gas from current producers, on favorable terms, or at all, is subject to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • The level of existing and new competition in our businesses or from alternative sources, such as electricity, renewable resources, coal, fuel oils, or nuclear energy; • Natural gas and NGL prices, demand, availability, and margins in our markets. Higher prices for energy commodities related to our businesses could result in a decline in the demand for those commodities and, therefore, in customer contracts or throughput on our pipeline systems. Also, lower energy commodity prices could negatively impact our ability to maintain or achieve favorable contractual terms, including pricing, and could also result in a decline in the production of energy commodities resulting in reduced customer contracts, supply contracts, and throughput on our pipeline systems; • General economic, financial markets, and industry conditions; 32 • The effects of regulation on us, our customers, and our contracting practices; • Our ability to understand our customers’ expectations, efficiently and reliably deliver high quality services, and effectively manage customer relationships. The results of these efforts will impact our reputation and positioning in the market. Certain of our gas pipeline services are subject to long-term, fixed-price contracts that are not subject to adjustment, even if our cost to perform such services exceeds the revenues received from such contracts. Our gas pipelines provide some services pursuant to long-term, fixed-price contracts. It is possible that costs to perform services under such contracts will exceed the revenues our pipelines collect for their services. Although other services are priced at cost-based rates that are subject to adjustment in rate cases, under FERC policy, a regulated service provider and a customer may mutually agree to sign a contract for service at a “negotiated rate” that may be above or below the FERC regulated cost-based rate for that service. These “negotiated rate” contracts are not generally subject to adjustment for increased costs that could be produced by inflation or other factors relating to the specific facilities being used to perform the services. Some of our businesses are exposed to supplier concentration risks arising from dependence on a single or a limited number of suppliers. Some of our businesses may be dependent on a small number of suppliers for delivery of critical goods or services. If a supplier on which one of our businesses depends were to fail to timely supply required goods and services, such business may not be able to replace such goods and services in a timely manner or otherwise on favorable terms or at all. If our business is unable to adequately diversify or otherwise mitigate such supplier concentration risks and such risks were realized, such businesses could be subject to reduced revenues and increased expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Failure of our service providers or disruptions to our outsourcing relationships might negatively impact our ability to conduct our business. Certain of our accounting and information technology services are currently provided by third-party vendors, and sometimes from service centers outside of the United States. Services provided pursuant to these arrangements could be disrupted. Similarly, the expiration of agreements associated with such arrangements or the transition of services between providers could lead to loss of institutional knowledge or service disruptions. Our reliance on others as service providers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. An impairment of our assets, including property, plant, and equipment, intangible assets, and/or equity-method investments, could reduce our earnings. GAAP requires us to test certain assets for impairment on either an annual basis or when events or circumstances occur which indicate that the carrying value of such assets might be impaired. The outcome of such testing could result in impairments of our assets including our property, plant, and equipment, intangible assets, and/or equity-method investments. Additionally, any asset monetizations could result in impairments if any assets are sold or otherwise exchanged for amounts less than their carrying value. If we determine that an impairment has occurred, we would be required to take an immediate noncash charge to earnings. Increasing scrutiny and changing expectations from stakeholders with respect to our environmental, social and governance practices may impose additional costs on us or expose us to new or additional risks. Companies across all industries are facing increasing scrutiny from stakeholders related to their environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) practices. Investor advocacy groups, institutional investors, investment funds and other influential investors are also increasingly focused on ESG practices and in recent years have placed increasing importance on the implications and social cost of their investments. Regardless of the industry, investors’ increased focus and activism related to ESG (as proponents or opponents) and similar matters may hinder access to capital, as investors may decide to reallocate capital or to not commit capital as a result of their assessment of a company’s ESG practices. Companies that do not adapt to or comply with investor or other stakeholder expectations and standards, which are evolving, or that are perceived to have not responded appropriately to the growing concern for 33 ESG issues, regardless of whether there is a legal requirement to do so, may suffer from reputational damage, and the business, financial condition, and/or stock price of such a company could be materially and adversely affected. We face pressures from our stockholders, who are increasingly focused on climate change, to prioritize sustainable energy practices, reduce our carbon footprint, and promote sustainability. Our stockholders may require us to implement ESG procedures or standards in order to continue engaging with us, to remain invested in us or before they may make further investments in us. Additionally, we may face reputational challenges in the event our ESG procedures or standards do not meet the standards set by certain constituencies. We adopted certain practices as highlighted in our 2022 Sustainability Report, including with respect to air emissions, biodiversity and land use, climate change, and environmental stewardship. It is possible, however, that our stockholders might not be satisfied with our sustainability efforts or the speed of their adoption. If we do not meet our stockholders’ expectations, our business, ability to access capital, and/or our stock price could be harmed. Additionally, adverse effects upon the oil and gas industry related to the worldwide social and political environments, including uncertainty or instability resulting from climate change, changes in political leadership and environmental policies, changes in geopolitical-social views toward fossil fuels and renewable energy, concern about the environmental impact of climate change, and investors’ expectations regarding ESG matters, may also adversely affect demand for our services. Any long-term material adverse effect on the oil and gas industry could have a significant financial and operational adverse impact on our business. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the price of our stock and our business and financial condition. We may be subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. The threat of global climate change may create physical and financial risks to our business. Energy needs vary with weather conditions. To the extent weather conditions may be affected by climate change, energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of any changes. Increased energy use due to weather changes may require us to invest in more pipelines and other infrastructure to serve increased demand. A decrease in energy use due to weather changes may affect our financial condition through decreased revenues. Extreme weather conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stresses, including service interruptions. Weather conditions outside of our operating territory could also have an impact on our revenues. To the extent the frequency of extreme weather events increases, this could increase our cost of providing service. We may not be able to pass on the higher costs to our customers or recover all costs related to mitigating these physical risks. Additionally, many climate models indicate that global warming is likely to result in rising sea levels and increased frequency and severity of weather events, which may lead to higher insurance costs, or a decrease in available coverage, for our assets in areas subject to severe weather. These climate-related changes could damage our physical assets, especially operations located in low-lying areas near coasts and river banks, and facilities situated in hurricane-prone and rain-susceptible regions. To the extent financial markets view climate change and greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions as a financial risk, this could negatively impact our cost of and access to capital. Climate change and GHG regulation could also reduce demand for our services. Our business could also be affected by the potential for lawsuits against GHG emitters, based on links drawn between GHG emissions and climate change. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions. There are operational risks associated with the gathering, transporting, storage, processing, and treating of natural gas, the fractionation, transportation, and storage of NGLs, and crude oil transportation and production handling, including: • Aging infrastructure and mechanical problems; • Damages to pipelines and pipeline blockages or other pipeline interruptions; • Uncontrolled releases of natural gas (including sour gas), NGLs, crude oil, or other products; • Collapse or failure of storage caverns; 34 • Operator error; • Damage caused by third-party activity, such as operation of construction equipment; • Pollution and other environmental risks; • Fires, explosions, craterings, and blowouts; • Security risks, including cybersecurity; • Operating in a marine environment. Any of these risks could result in loss of human life, personal injuries, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations, loss of services to our customers, reputational damage, and substantial losses to us. The location of certain segments of our facilities in or near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. An event such as those described above could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, particularly if the event is not fully covered by insurance. Our assets and operations, as well as our customers’ assets and operations, can be adversely affected by weather and other natural phenomena. Our assets and operations, especially those located offshore, and our customers’ assets and operations can be adversely affected by hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, landslides, tornadoes, fires, and other natural phenomena and weather conditions, including extreme or unseasonable temperatures, making it more difficult for us to realize the historic rates of return associated with our assets and operations. A significant disruption in our or our customers’ operations or the occurrence of a significant liability for which we are not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our business could be negatively impacted by acts of terrorism and related disruptions. Given the volatile nature of the commodities we transport, process, store, and sell, our assets and the assets of our customers and others in our industry may be targets of terrorist activities. Uncertainty surrounding the Russian invasion of Ukraine, conflicts in the Middle East including between Israel and Hamas and conflicts involving Iran and its proxy forces, or other sustained military campaigns, may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terrorism. A terrorist attack could create significant price volatility, disrupt our business, limit our access to capital markets, or cause significant harm to our operations, such as full or partial disruption to our ability to produce, process, transport, or distribute natural gas, NGLs, or other commodities. Acts of terrorism, as well as events occurring in response to or in connection with acts of terrorism, could cause environmental repercussions that could result in a significant decrease in revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. A breach of our information technology infrastructure, including a breach caused by a cybersecurity attack on us or third parties with whom we are interconnected, may interfere with the safe operation of our assets, result in the disclosure of personal or proprietary information, and harm our reputation. We rely on our information technology infrastructure to process, transmit, and store electronic information, including information we use to safely operate our assets. Our Board of Directors has oversight responsibility with regard to assessment of the major risks inherent in our business, including cybersecurity risks, and reviews management’s efforts to address and mitigate such risks, including the establishment and implementation of policies to address cybersecurity threats. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, significant time, manpower, and capital in our information technology infrastructure. However, the age, operating systems, or condition of our current information technology infrastructure and software assets and our ability to maintain and upgrade such assets could affect our ability to resist cybersecurity threats. While we believe that we maintain appropriate information security policies, practices, and protocols, we regularly face cybersecurity and other security threats to our information technology infrastructure, which could include threats to our operational industrial control systems and safety systems that operate our pipelines, plants, and assets. We face unlawful attempts to gain access to our information technology infrastructure, including coordinated attacks from hackers, whether state-sponsored groups, 35 “hacktivists”, or private individuals. We face the threat of theft and misuse of sensitive data and information, including customer and employee information. We also face attempts to gain access to information related to our assets through attempts to obtain unauthorized access by targeting acts of deception against individuals with legitimate access to physical locations or information. We also are subject to cybersecurity risks arising from the fact that our business operations are interconnected with third parties, including third-party pipelines, other facilities and our contractors and vendors. In addition, the breach of certain business systems could affect our ability to correctly record, process, and report financial information. Breaches in our information technology infrastructure or physical facilities, or other disruptions including those arising from theft, vandalism, fraud, or unethical conduct, which may increase as a result of the Russian invasion of Ukraine or other geopolitical tensions and conflicts, could result in damage to or destruction of our assets, unnecessary waste, safety incidents, damage to the environment, reputational damage, potential liability, the loss of contracts, the imposition of significant costs associated with remediation and litigation, heightened regulatory scrutiny, increased insurance costs, and have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. If third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our pipelines and facilities become unavailable to transport natural gas and NGLs or to treat natural gas, our revenues could be adversely affected. We depend upon third-party pipelines and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from our pipelines and facilities for the benefit of our customers. Because we do not own these third-party pipelines or other facilities, their continuing operation is not within our control. If these pipelines or facilities were to become temporarily or permanently unavailable for any reason, or if throughput were reduced because of testing, line repair, damage to pipelines or facilities, reduced operating pressures, lack of capacity, increased credit requirements or rates charged by such pipelines or facilities or other causes, we and our customers would have reduced capacity to transport, store, or deliver natural gas or NGL products to end use markets or to receive deliveries of mixed NGLs, thereby reducing our revenues. Any temporary or permanent interruption at any key pipeline interconnection or in operations on third-party pipelines or facilities that would cause a material reduction in volumes transported on our pipelines or our gathering systems or processed, fractionated, treated, or stored at our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our operating results for certain components of our business might fluctuate on a seasonal basis. Revenues from certain components of our business can have seasonal characteristics. In many parts of the country, demand for natural gas and other fuels peaks during the winter. As a result, our overall operating results in the future might fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. Demand for natural gas and other fuels could vary significantly from our expectations depending on the nature and location of our facilities and pipeline systems and the terms of our natural gas transportation arrangements relative to demand created by unusual weather patterns. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, which could disrupt our operations. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities have been constructed. As such, we are subject to the possibility of increased costs to retain necessary land use. In those instances in which we do not own the land on which our facilities are located, we obtain the rights to construct and operate our facilities and gathering systems on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. In addition, some of our facilities cross Native American lands pursuant to rights-of-way of limited terms. We may not have the right of eminent domain over land owned by Native American tribes. Our loss of any of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our business could be negatively impacted as a result of stockholder activism. In recent years, stockholder activism, including threatened or actual proxy contests, has been directed against numerous public companies, including ours. We were the target of a proxy contest from a stockholder activist, which resulted in our incurring significant costs. If stockholder activists were to again take or threaten to take actions against the Company or seek to involve themselves in the governance, strategic direction, or operations of the Company, we could incur significant costs as well as the distraction of management, which could have an adverse effect on our business or financial results. In addition, actions of activist stockholders may cause significant 36 fluctuations in our stock price based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business. Our costs and funding obligations for our defined benefit pension plans and costs for our other postretirement benefit plans are affected by factors beyond our control. We have defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans. The timing and amount of our funding requirements under the defined benefit pension plans depend upon a number of factors that we control, including changes to pension plan benefits, as well as factors outside of our control, such as asset returns, interest rates, and changes in pension laws. Changes to these and other factors that can significantly increase our funding requirements could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Financing Our Business A downgrade of our credit ratings, which are determined outside of our control by independent third parties, could impact our liquidity, access to capital, and our costs of doing business. Downgrades of our credit ratings increase our cost of borrowing and could require us to provide collateral to our counterparties, negatively impacting our available liquidity. In addition, our ability to access capital markets could be limited by the downgrading of our credit ratings. Credit rating agencies perform independent analysis when assigning credit ratings. The analysis includes a number of criteria such as, business composition, market and operational risks, as well as various financial tests. Credit rating agencies continue to review the criteria for industry sectors and various debt ratings and may make changes to those criteria from time to time. Credit ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the ratings agencies. As of the date of the filing of this report, we have been assigned an investment-grade credit rating by the credit ratings agencies. Difficult conditions in the global financial markets and the economy in general could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Our businesses may be negatively impacted by adverse economic conditions or future disruptions in the global financial markets. Included among these potential negative impacts are industrial or economic contraction leading to reduced energy demand and lower prices for our products and services and increased difficulty in collecting amounts owed to us by our customers. Geopolitical tensions and conflicts including those in the Middle East between Israel and Hamas and Iran or its proxy forces, as well as the ongoing Russian invasion of Ukraine and the actions undertaken by western nations in response to these conflicts have had, and may continue to have, adverse impacts on global financial markets. If financing is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to implement our business plans or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. In addition, financial markets have periodically been affected by concerns over U.S. fiscal and monetary policies. These concerns, as well as actions taken by the U.S. federal government in response to these concerns, could significantly and adversely impact the global and U.S. economies and financial markets, which could negatively impact us in the manner described above. Restrictions in our debt agreements and the amount of our indebtedness may affect our future financial and operating flexibility. Our total outstanding long-term debt (including current portion and commercial paper) as of December 31, 2023, was $26.4 billion. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain covenants that restrict our and our material subsidiaries’ ability to incur certain liens to support indebtedness and our ability to merge or consolidate or sell all or substantially all of our assets in certain circumstances. In addition, certain of our debt agreements contain various covenants that restrict or limit, among other things, our ability to make certain distributions during the continuation of an event of default, the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional debt, and our, and our material subsidiaries’, ability to enter into certain affiliate transactions and certain restrictive agreements. Certain of our debt agreements also contain, and those we enter into in the future may contain, financial covenants, and other limitations with which we will need to comply. 37 Our debt service obligations and the covenants described above could have important consequences. For example, they could: • Make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, which could in turn result in an event of default on such indebtedness; • Impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes, or other purposes; • Diminish our ability to withstand a continued or future downturn in our business or the economy generally; • Require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, the payments of dividends, general corporate purposes, or other purposes; • Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, including limiting our ability to expand or pursue our business activities and preventing us from engaging in certain transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us. Our ability to comply with our debt covenants, to repay, extend, or refinance our existing debt obligations and to obtain future credit will depend primarily on our operating performance. Our ability to refinance existing debt obligations or obtain future credit will also depend upon the current conditions in the credit markets and the availability of credit generally. If we are unable to comply with these covenants, meet our debt service obligations, or obtain future credit on favorable terms, or at all, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. We may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our failure to comply with the covenants in the documents governing our indebtedness could result in events of default, which could render such indebtedness due and payable. We may not have sufficient liquidity to repay our indebtedness in such circumstances. In addition, cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions in our debt agreements could cause a default or acceleration to have a wider impact on our liquidity than might otherwise arise from a default or acceleration of a single debt instrument. For more information regarding our debt agreements, please read Note 12 – Debt and Banking Arrangements. Changes to interest rates or increases in interest rates could adversely impact our access to credit, share price, our ability to issue securities or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes, and our ability to make cash dividends at our intended levels. Interest rates have risen in recent years and may increase in the future. As a result, interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, our share price will be impacted by the level of our dividends and implied dividend yield. The dividend yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our shares, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our share price and our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and to pay cash dividends at our intended levels. Our hedging activities might not be effective and could increase the volatility of our results. In an effort to manage our financial exposure related to commodity price and market fluctuations, we have entered, and may in the future enter into contracts to hedge certain risks associated with our assets and operations. In these hedging activities, we have used, and may in the future use, fixed-price, forward, physical purchase, and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and option contracts traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. Nevertheless, no single hedging arrangement can adequately address all risks present in a given contract. For example, a forward contract that would be effective in hedging commodity price volatility risks would not hedge the contract’s counterparty credit or performance risk. Therefore, unhedged risks will always continue to exist. While we attempt to manage counterparty credit risk within guidelines established by our credit policy, we may not be able to successfully manage all credit risk and as such, future cash flows and results of operations could be impacted by counterparty default. The difference in accounting treatment for the underlying position and the financial instrument 38 used to hedge the value of the contract can cause volatility in our reported net income while the positions are open due to mark-to-market accounting. Our and our customers’ access to capital could be affected by financial institutions’ policies concerning fossil- fuel related businesses . Public concern regarding the potential effects of climate change have directed increased attention towards the funding sources of fossil-fuel energy companies. As a result, certain financial institutions, funds, and other sources of capital have restricted or eliminated their investment in certain market segments of fossil-fuel related energy.  Ultimately, limiting fossil-fuel related companies’ access to capital could make it more difficult for our customers to secure funding for exploration and production activities or for us to secure funding for growth projects. Such a lack of capital could also both indirectly affect demand for our services and directly affect our ability to fund construction or other capital projects. Risks Related to Regulations The operation of our businesses might be adversely affected by regulatory proceedings, changes in government regulations or in their interpretation or implementation, or the introduction of new laws or regulations applicable to our businesses or our customers. Public and regulatory scrutiny of the energy industry has resulted in the proposal and/or implementation of increased regulations. Such scrutiny has also resulted in various inquiries, investigations, and court proceedings, including litigation of energy industry matters. Both the shippers on our pipelines and regulators have rights to challenge the rates we charge under certain circumstances. Any successful challenge could materially affect our results of operations. Certain inquiries, investigations, and court proceedings are ongoing. Adverse effects may continue as a result of the uncertainty of ongoing inquiries, investigations, and court proceedings, or additional inquiries and proceedings by federal or state regulatory agencies or private plaintiffs. In addition, we cannot predict the outcome of any of these inquiries or whether these inquiries will lead to additional legal proceedings against us, civil or criminal fines and/or penalties, or other regulatory action, including legislation, which might be materially adverse to the operation of our business and our results of operations or increase our operating costs in other ways. Current legal proceedings or other matters, including environmental matters, suits, regulatory appeals, and similar matters might result in adverse decisions against us which, among other outcomes, could result in the imposition of substantial penalties and fines and could damage our reputation. The result of such adverse decisions, either individually or in the aggregate, could be material and may not be covered fully or at all by insurance. In addition, existing regulations, including those pertaining to financial assurances to be provided by our businesses in respect of potential asset decommissioning and abandonment activities, might be revised, reinterpreted, or otherwise enforced in a manner that differs from prior regulatory action. New laws and regulations, including those pertaining to oil and gas hedging and cash collateral requirements, might also be adopted or become applicable to us, our customers, or our business activities. The current U.S. governmental administration and its policies, which often oppose the development or expansion of fossil fuel energy, have increased the likelihood of such legal and regulatory developments. If new laws or regulations are imposed relating to oil and gas extraction, or if additional or revised levels of reporting, regulation, or permitting moratoria are required or imposed, including those related to hydraulic fracturing, the volumes of natural gas and other products that we transport, gather, process, and treat could decline, our compliance costs could increase, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. The natural gas sales, transportation, and storage operations of our gas pipelines are subject to regulation by the FERC, which could have an adverse impact on their ability to establish transportation and storage rates that would allow them to recover the full cost of operating their respective pipelines and storage assets, including a reasonable rate of return. In addition to regulation by other federal, state, and local regulatory authorities, interstate pipeline transportation and storage service is subject to regulation by the FERC. Federal regulation extends to such matters as: • Transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce; 39 • Rates, operating terms, types of services, and conditions of service; • Certification and construction of new interstate pipelines and storage facilities; • Acquisition, extension, disposition, or abandonment of existing interstate pipelines and storage facilities; • Accounts and records; • Depreciation and amortization policies; • Relationships with affiliated companies that are involved in marketing functions of the natural gas business; • Market manipulation in connection with interstate sales, purchases, or transportation of natural gas. Regulatory or administrative actions in these areas, including successful complaints or protests against the rates of the gas pipelines, can affect our business in many ways, including decreasing tariff rates and revenues, decreasing volumes in our pipelines, increasing our costs, and otherwise altering the profitability of our pipeline business. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations, including laws and regulations relating to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, which may expose us to significant costs, liabilities, and expenditures that could exceed our expectations. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state, tribal, and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection, endangered and threatened species, the discharge of materials into the environment, and the security of chemical and industrial facilities. Substantial costs, liabilities, delays, and other significant issues related to environmental laws and regulations are inherent in the gathering, transportation, storage, processing, and treating of natural gas, fractionation, transportation, and storage of NGLs, and crude oil transportation and production handling as well as waste disposal practices and construction activities. New or amended environmental laws and regulations can also result in significant increases in capital costs we incur to comply with such laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations, and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and/or criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, the imposition of stricter conditions on or revocation of permits, the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations, and delays or denials in granting permits. Joint and several strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations, for the remediation of contaminated areas and in connection with spills or releases of materials associated with natural gas, oil, and wastes on, under, or from our properties and facilities. Private parties, including the owners of properties through which our pipeline and gathering systems pass and facilities where our wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage arising from our operations. Some sites at which we operate are located near current or former third-party hydrocarbon storage and processing or oil and natural gas operations or facilities, and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to ours. We are generally responsible for all liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our facilities and assets, whether acquired or developed, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. In connection with certain acquisitions and divestitures, we could acquire, or be required to provide indemnification against, environmental liabilities that could expose us to material losses, which may not be covered by insurance. In addition, the steps we could be required to take to bring certain facilities into compliance could be prohibitively expensive, and we might be required to shut down, divest, or alter the operation of those facilities, which might cause us to incur losses. In addition, climate change regulations and the costs that may be associated with such regulations and with the regulation of emissions of GHGs have the potential to affect our business. Regulatory actions by the Environmental Protection Agency or the passage of new climate change laws or regulations could result in increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities, install new emission controls on our facilities, or administer and manage any GHG emissions program. We believe it is possible that future governmental legislation and/or regulation may require us either to limit GHG emissions associated with our operations or to purchase allowances for such emissions. We could also be subjected to a carbon tax assessed on the basis of carbon dioxide emissions or otherwise. However, we cannot predict precisely what form these future regulations might take, the stringency of 40 any such regulations or when they might become effective. Several legislative bills have been introduced in the United States Congress that would require carbon dioxide emission reductions. Previously considered proposals have included, among other things, limitations on the amount of GHGs that can be emitted (so called “caps”) together with systems of permitted emissions allowances. These proposals could require us to reduce emissions or to purchase allowances for such emissions. In addition to activities on the federal level, state and regional initiatives could also lead to the regulation of GHG emissions sooner than and/or independent of federal regulation. These regulations could be more stringent than any federal legislation that may be adopted. Future legislation and/or regulation designed to reduce GHG emissions could make some of our activities uneconomic to maintain or operate. We continue to monitor legislative and regulatory developments in this area and otherwise take efforts to limit and reduce GHG emissions from our facilities. Although the regulation of GHG emissions may have a material impact on our operations and rates, we believe it is premature to attempt to quantify the potential costs of the impacts. If we are unable to recover or pass through a significant level of our costs related to complying with climate change regulatory requirements imposed on us, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. General Risk Factors We do not insure against all potential risks and losses and could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities or by the inability of our insurers to satisfy our claims. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, risks and losses, and only at levels we believe to be appropriate. The occurrence of any risks not fully covered by our insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and our ability to repay our debt. Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could negatively impact our results of operations. Events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, mismatch of skill sets to future needs, the challenges of attracting new, qualified workers to the midstream energy industry, or unavailability of contract labor may lead to operating challenges such as lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development, including with the workforce needs associated with projects and ongoing operations. Failure to hire and adequately obtain replacement employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect our ability to manage and operate the businesses. If we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, including members of senior management, results of operations could be negatively impacted. Holders of our common stock may not receive dividends in the amount expected or any dividends. We may not have sufficient cash each quarter to pay dividends or maintain current or expected levels of dividends. The actual amount of cash we dividend may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and will depend on various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • The amount of cash that our subsidiaries distribute to us; • The amount of cash we generate from our operations, our working capital needs, our level of capital expenditures, and our ability to borrow; • The restrictions contained in our indentures and credit facility and our debt service requirements; • The cost of acquisitions, if any. A failure either to pay dividends or to pay dividends at expected levels could result in a loss of investor confidence, reputational damage, and a decrease in the value of our stock price. 41

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

General We are an energy company committed to being the leader in providing infrastructure that safely delivers natural gas products to reliably fuel the clean energy economy. Our operations are located in the United States. Our interstate natural gas pipeline strategy is to create value by maximizing the utilization of our pipeline capacity by providing high-quality, low-cost transportation of natural gas to large and growing markets. Our gas pipeline businesses’ interstate transmission and storage activities are subject to regulation by the FERC and as such, our rates and charges for the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce, and the extension, expansion or abandonment of jurisdictional facilities and accounting, among other things, are subject to regulation. The rates are established primarily through the FERC’s ratemaking process, but we also may negotiate rates with our customers pursuant to the terms of our tariffs and FERC policy. Changes in commodity prices and volumes transported have limited near-term impact on these revenues because the majority of cost of service is recovered through firm capacity reservation charges in transportation rates. The ongoing strategy of our midstream operations is to safely and reliably operate large-scale midstream infrastructure where our assets can be fully utilized and drive low per-unit costs. We focus on consistently attracting new business by providing highly reliable service to our customers. These services include natural gas gathering, processing, treating, compression and storage, NGL fractionation, transportation and storage, crude oil production handling and transportation, as well as marketing services for NGL, crude oil, and natural gas. Consistent with the manner in which our chief operating decision maker evaluates performance and allocates resources, our operations are conducted, managed, and presented within the following reportable segments: Transmission & Gulf of Mexico, Northeast G&P, West, and Gas & NGL Marketing Services. All remaining business activities, including our upstream operations and corporate activities, are included in Other. Our reportable segments are comprised of the following business activities: • Transmission & Gulf of Mexico is comprised of our interstate natural gas pipelines, Transco, Northwest Pipeline, and MountainWest, and their related natural gas storage facilities, as well as natural gas gathering and processing and crude oil production handling and transportation assets in the Gulf Coast region, including a 51 percent interest in Gulfstar One, a 50 percent equity-method investment in Gulfstream, and a 60 percent equity-method investment in Discovery. Transmission & Gulf of Mexico also includes natural gas storage facilities and pipelines providing services in north Texas. • Northeast G&P is comprised of our midstream gathering, processing, and fractionation businesses in the Marcellus Shale region primarily in Pennsylvania and New York, and the Utica Shale region of eastern Ohio, as well as a 65 percent interest in Northeast JV which operates in West Virginia, Ohio, and Pennsylvania, a 66 percent interest in Cardinal which operates in Ohio, a 69 percent equity-method investment in Laurel Mountain, a 50 percent equity-method investment in Blue Racer, and Appalachia Midstream Investments. • West is comprised of our gas gathering, processing, and treating operations in the Rocky Mountain region of Colorado and Wyoming, the Barnett Shale region of north-central Texas, the Eagle Ford Shale region of south Texas, the Haynesville Shale region of east Texas and northwest Louisiana, the Mid-Continent region which includes the Anadarko and Permian basins, and the DJ Basin of Colorado which includes RMM, a former 50 percent equity-method investment in which we acquired the remaining ownership interest in November 2023. This segment also includes our NGL storage facilities, an undivided 50 percent interest in an NGL fractionator near Conway, Kansas, a 50 percent equity-method investment in OPPL, a 20 percent equity-method investment in Targa Train 7, and a 15 percent equity-method investment in Brazos Permian II. • Gas & NGL Marketing Services is comprised of our NGL and natural gas marketing and trading operations, which includes risk management and transactions related to the storage and transportation of natural gas and NGLs on strategically positioned assets. 49 Unless indicated otherwise, the following discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition and liquidity relates to our current continuing operations and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Part II, Item 8 of this report. Dividends In December 2023, we paid a regular quarterly dividend of $0.4475 per share. On January 30, 2024, our board of directors approved a regular quarterly dividend of $0.4750 per share payable on March 25, 2024. Overview of the Results of Operations Net income (loss) attributable to The Williams Companies, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2023, increased by $1.13 billion over the prior year. Further discussion of our results is found in this report in the Results of Operations. Recent Developments Expansion Project Updates Significant expansion project updates for the period, including projects placed into service are described below. Ongoing major expansion projects are discussed later in Company Outlook. Northeast G&P Susquehanna Supply Hub Gathering Expansion We have an agreement in place with a third party for a construction project to facilitate natural gas production growth in the Susquehanna region. We constructed approximately 22 miles of gathering pipeline and associated incremental compression. The system added incremental natural gas gathering capacity of 320 MMcf/d. This project went into service in the fourth quarter of 2023. Utica Shale Gathering Expansion We have an agreement in place with a third party for a construction project to facilitate natural gas production growth in the Utica region on our Cardinal gathering system. We constructed approximately 30 miles of gathering pipeline and associated incremental compression. The system added incremental natural gas gathering capacity of 125 MMcf/d. Phase 1 of this project was placed into service in the third quarter of 2023 and Phase 2 went into service in the fourth quarter of 2023. Transmission & Gulf of Mexico Regional Energy Access In January 2023, we received approval from the FERC for the project to expand Transco’s existing natural gas transmission system to provide incremental firm transportation capacity from receipt points in northeastern Pennsylvania to multiple delivery points in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Maryland. We placed approximately half of the project into service in the fourth quarter of 2023 and plan to place the remainder of the project into service as early as the fourth quarter of 2024, assuming timely receipt of all necessary regulatory approvals. The project is expected to increase capacity by 829 Mdth/d. Acquisitions and Divestitures (see Note 3 – Acquisitions and Divestitures) Gulf Coast Storage Acquisition On January 3, 2024, we closed on the acquisition of 100 percent of a strategic portfolio of natural gas storage facilities and pipelines, located in Louisiana and Mississippi, from Hartree Partners LP for $1.95 billion, subject to working capital and post-closing adjustments. The purpose of this acquisition was to expand our natural gas storage footprint in the Gulf Coast region, and will be reported in the Transmission & Gulf of 50 Mexico segment. The Gulf Coast Storage Acquisition was funded with cash on hand and $100 million of deferred consideration. DJ Basin Acquisitions On November 30, 2023, we closed on the acquisition of 100 percent of Cureton, whose operations are located in the DJ Basin, for $546 million, subject to working capital and post-closing adjustments. Concurrently, we closed on the acquisition of an additional 50 percent interest in our equity-method investment RMM for $704 million. We now own 100 percent of and consolidate RMM. The purpose of these acquisitions was to expand our gathering and processing footprint in the DJ Basin. The Cureton Acquisition was funded with cash on hand. Substantially all of the RMM purchase price is not due to the seller until the first quarter of 2025, does not accrue interest until the fourth quarter of 2024, and may be repaid early without penalty. These businesses are reported within the West segment. Sale of Certain Gulf Coast Liquids Pipelines On September 29, 2023, we completed the sale of various petrochemical and feedstock pipelines and associated contracts in the Gulf Coast region for $348 million. As a result of this sale, we recorded a gain of $129 million in 2023 in our Transmission & Gulf of Mexico segment. MountainWest Acquisition On February 14, 2023, we closed on the acquisition of 100 percent of MountainWest Pipelines Holding Company which includes FERC-regulated interstate natural gas pipeline systems and natural gas storage capacity, for $1.08 billion of cash, funded with available sources of short-term liquidity, and retaining $430 million outstanding principal amount of MountainWest long-term debt. The MountainWest Acquisition expands our existing transmission and storage infrastructure footprint into major markets in Utah, Wyoming, and Colorado. This business is reported within the Transmission & Gulf of Mexico segment. Favorable Judgment Against Energy Transfer We have been involved in litigation since 2016 in Delaware Chancery Court with Energy Transfer Equity, L.P. (Energy Transfer) related to the Agreement and Plan of Merger with Energy Transfer, dated as of September 28, 2015. On December 29, 2021, the court entered judgment in our favor in the amount of $410 million, plus interest at the contractual rate, and our reasonable attorneys’ fees and expenses. On September 21, 2022, the Delaware Chancery Court entered a final order and judgment awarding us a termination fee, attorney’s fees, expenses, and interest in the amount of $602 million plus additional interest starting September 17, 2022. Energy Transfer appealed to the Delaware Supreme Court. The Delaware Supreme Court held oral argument en banc on July 12, 2023. On October 10, 2023, the Delaware Supreme Court issued an opinion affirming the Delaware Chancery Court ruling. On October 25, 2023, Energy Transfer filed a motion for reargument with the Delaware Supreme Court, which was denied. On November 28, 2023, we received a $627 million payment from Energy Transfer for the final order and judgment. On the same day, we paid attorney fees which had been incurred on a contingent fee basis. This resulted in a net gain of $534 million reported as Net gain from Energy Transfer litigation judgment in our Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 2023 (See Note 17 – Contingencies and Commitments). Northwest Pipeline FERC Rate Case Settlement On November 15, 2022, Northwest Pipeline received approval from the FERC for a stipulation and settlement agreement which generally reduces rates effective January 1, 2023, resolves other rate issues, establishes a Modernization and Emission Reduction Program, and satisfies its rate case filing obligation. Provisions were included in the settlement that establish a moratorium on any proceedings that would seek to place new rates in effect any earlier than January 1, 2026, and that a general rate case filing will be made for rates to become effective not later than April 1, 2028, unless we have entered into a pre-filing settlement prior to that date. 51 Company Outlook Our strategy is to provide a large-scale, reliable, and clean energy infrastructure designed to maximize the opportunities created by the vast supply of natural gas and natural gas products that exists in the United States. We accomplish this by connecting the growing demand for cleaner fuels and feedstocks with our major positions in the premier natural gas and natural gas products supply basins. We continue to maintain a strong commitment to safety, environmental stewardship including seeking opportunities for renewable energy ventures, operational excellence, and customer satisfaction. We believe that accomplishing these goals will position us to deliver safe, reliable, clean energy services to our customers and an attractive return to our shareholders. Our business plan for 2024 includes a continued focus on earnings and cash flow growth. In 2024, our operating results are expected to benefit from the recent Gulf Coast Storage and DJ Basin acquisitions. We also anticipate increases resulting from Transmission & Gulf of Mexico expansion projects, including the Regional Energy Access project, and annual inflation-based rate increases across our gathering and processing business. These increases are partially offset by lower expected Gas & NGL Marketing Services results, the absence of realized hedge gains captured in 2023, and a decrease in expected volumes in the Appalachian Basin associated with a lower expected commodity price environment. We seek to maintain a strong financial position and liquidity, as well as manage a diversified portfolio of safe, clean, and reliable energy infrastructure assets that continue to serve key growth markets and supply basins in the United States. Our growth capital and investment expenditures in 2024 are expected to be in a range from $1.45 billion to $1.75 billion, excluding acquisitions. Growth capital spending in 2024 primarily includes Transco expansions, all of which are fully contracted with firm transportation agreements, projects supporting growth in the Haynesville Basin, and projects supporting the Northeast G&P business. We also expect to invest capital in our Other segment ventures. In addition to growth capital and investment expenditures, we also remain committed to projects that maintain our assets for safe and reliable operations, as well as projects that reduce emissions, and meet legal, regulatory, and/or contractual commitments. Potential risks and obstacles that could impact the execution of our plan include: • A global recession, which could result in downturns in financial markets and commodity prices, as well as impact demand for natural gas and related products; • Opposition to, and regulations affecting, our infrastructure projects, including the risk of delay or denial in permits and approvals needed for our projects; • Counterparty credit and performance risk; • Unexpected significant increases in capital expenditures or delays in capital project execution, including increases from inflation or delays caused by supply chain disruptions; • Unexpected changes in customer drilling and production activities, which could negatively impact gathering and processing volumes; • Lower than anticipated demand for natural gas and natural gas products which could result in lower-than-expected volumes, energy commodity prices, and margins; • General economic, financial markets, or industry downturns, including increased inflation and interest rates; • Physical damages to facilities, including damage to offshore facilities by weather-related events; • Other risks set forth under Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors in this report. 52 Expansion Projects Our ongoing major expansion projects include the following: Transmission & Gulf of Mexico Deepwater Shenandoah Project In June 2021, we reached an agreement with two third-parties to provide offshore natural gas gathering and transportation services as well as onshore natural gas processing services. The project expands our existing Gulf of Mexico offshore infrastructure via a 5-mile offshore lateral pipeline from the Shenandoah platform to Discovery’s existing Keathley Canyon Connector pipeline, adds onshore processing facilities at Larose, Louisiana to handle the expected rich Shenandoah production, and the natural gas liquids will be fractionated and marketed at Discovery’s Paradis plant in Louisiana. We plan to place the project into service in the fourth quarter of 2024. Deepwater Whale Project In August 2021, we reached an agreement with two third-parties to provide offshore natural gas gathering and crude oil transportation services as well as onshore natural gas processing services. The project expands our existing Western Gulf of Mexico offshore infrastructure via a 26-mile gas lateral pipeline from the Whale platform to the existing Perdido gas pipeline and adds a new 125-mile oil pipeline from the Whale platform to our existing junction platform. We plan to place the project into service in the fourth quarter of 2024. Regional Energy Access In January 2023, we received approval from the FERC for the project to expand Transco’s existing natural gas transmission system to provide incremental firm transportation capacity from receipt points in northeastern Pennsylvania to multiple delivery points in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Maryland. We placed approximately half of the project into service in the fourth quarter of 2023 and plan to place the remainder of the project into service as early as the fourth quarter of 2024, assuming timely receipt of all necessary regulatory approvals. The project is expected to increase capacity by 829 Mdth/d. Southside Reliability Enhancement In July 2023, we received approval from the FERC for the project, which involves an expansion of Transco’s existing natural gas transmission system to provide incremental firm transportation capacity from receipt points in Virginia and North Carolina to delivery points in North Carolina. We plan to place the project into service as early as the fourth quarter of 2024, assuming timely receipt of all necessary regulatory approvals. The project is expected to increase capacity by 423 Mdth/d. Texas to Louisiana Energy Pathway In January 2024, we received approval from the FERC for the project, which involves an expansion of Transco’s existing natural gas transmission system to provide firm transportation capacity from receipt points in south Texas to delivery points in Texas and Louisiana. We plan to place the project into service as early as the first quarter of 2025, assuming timely receipt of all necessary regulatory approvals. The project is expected to provide 364 Mdth/d of new firm transportation service through a combination of increasing capacity, converting interruptible capacity to firm, and utilizing existing capacity. Southeast Energy Connector In November 2023, we received approval from the FERC for the project, which involves an expansion of Transco’s existing natural gas transmission system to provide incremental firm transportation capacity from receipt points in Mississippi and Alabama to a delivery point in Alabama. We plan to place the project into service in the second quarter of 2025, assuming timely receipt of all necessary regulatory approvals. The project is expected to increase capacity by 150 Mdth/d. 53 Commonwealth Energy Connector In November 2023, we received approval from the FERC for the project, which involves an expansion of Transco’s existing natural gas transmission system to provide incremental firm transportation capacity in Virginia. We plan to place the project into service as early as the fourth quarter of 2025, assuming timely receipt of all necessary regulatory approvals. The project is expected to increase capacity by 105 Mdth/d. Alabama Georgia Connector In April 2023, we filed an application with the FERC for the project, which involves an expansion of Transco’s existing natural gas transmission system to provide incremental firm transportation capacity from our Station 85 pooling point in Alabama to customers in Georgia. We plan to place the project into service as early as the fourth quarter of 2025, assuming timely receipt of all necessary regulatory approvals. The project is expected to increase capacity by 64 Mdth/d. Southeast Supply Enhancement We plan to file an application with the FERC as early as the third quarter of 2024 for this project, which involves an expansion of Transco’s existing natural gas transmission system to provide incremental firm transportation capacity from receipt points in Virginia and North Carolina to delivery points in Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and Alabama. We plan to place the project into service as early as the fourth quarter of 2027, assuming timely receipt of all necessary regulatory approvals. The project is expected to increase capacity by 1,587 Mdth/d. Overthrust Westbound Compression Expansion In November 2023, we filed an application with the FERC for the project, which involves an expansion of MountainWest’s existing natural gas transmission system to provide incremental firm transportation capacity from multiple receipt points in Wamsutter, Wyoming to a delivery point in Opal, Wyoming. We plan to place the project into service as early as the fourth quarter of 2025, assuming timely receipt of all necessary regulatory approvals. The project is expected to increase capacity by 325 Mdth/d. Northeast G&P Cardinal Gathering Expansion We have an agreement in place with a third party to facilitate natural gas production growth in the Utica Shale region. We plan to construct approximately 8 miles of gathering pipeline and associated incremental compression. The system, once constructed, will add incremental capacity of 125 MMcf/d and will provide natural gas gathering services to the third party. The project is expected to go into service in the third quarter of 2025. West Louisiana Energy Gateway In June 2022, we announced our intention to construct new natural gas gathering assets which are expected to gather 1.8 Bcf/d of natural gas produced in the Haynesville Shale basin for delivery to premium markets, including Transco, industrial markets, and growing LNG export demand along the Gulf Coast. This project is expected to go into service in the second half of 2025. Haynesville Gathering Expansion In February 2023, we announced our agreement with a third party to facilitate natural gas production growth in the Haynesville basin. We plan to construct a greenfield gathering system in support of the third party’s 26,000-acre dedication. The system, once constructed, will provide natural gas gathering services to the 54 third party. The third party has also agreed to a long-term capacity commitment on our Louisiana Energy Gateway project. This project is expected to go into service in the second half of 2025. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions. We believe that the nature of these estimates and assumptions is material due to the subjectivity and judgment necessary, or the susceptibility of such matters to change, and the impact of these on our financial condition or results of operations. Pension and Postretirement Obligations We have pension and other postretirement benefit plans that require the use of assumptions and estimates to determine the benefit obligations and costs. These estimates and assumptions involve significant judgment and actual results will likely be different than anticipated. Estimates and assumptions utilized include the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, cash balance interest crediting rate, and employee demographics, including retirement age and mortality. These assumptions are reviewed annually and adjustments are made as needed. The assumptions utilized to compute the benefit obligations and costs are shown in Note 7 – Employee Benefit Plans. The following table presents the estimated increase (decrease) in net periodic benefit cost and obligations resulting from a one-percentage-point change in the specific assumption. Our expected long-term rates of return on plan assets, as determined at the beginning of each fiscal year, are based on historical returns, forward-looking capital market expectations of at least 10 years from our third-party independent investment advisor, as well as the investment strategy and relative weightings of the asset classes within the investment portfolio. Our expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used for our pension plans was 5.17 percent in 2023. The 2023 actual return on plan assets for our pension plans was approximately 11.4 percent. The 10-year average rate of return on pension plan assets through December 2023 was approximately 6.4 percent. The expected rates of return on plan assets are long-term in nature and are not significantly impacted by short-term market performance. The discount rates for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans are determined separately based on an approach specific to our plans, which considers a yield curve of high-quality corporate bonds and the duration of the expected benefit cash flows of each plan. The cash balance interest crediting rate assumption represents the average long-term rate by which the pension plans’ cash balance accounts are expected to grow. Interest on the cash balance accounts is based on the 30-year U.S. Treasury securities rate. 55 Results of Operations Consolidated Overview The following table and discussion is a summary of our consolidated results of operations for the three years ended December 31, 2023 and should be read in conjunction with the results of operations by segment, as discussed in further detail following this consolidated overview discussion. _______ *    + = Favorable change; - = Unfavorable change; NM = A percentage calculation is not meaningful due to a change in signs, a zero-value denominator, or a percentage change greater than 200. 56 2023 vs. 2022 Service revenues increased primarily due to: • Higher volumes from acquisitions at our Transmission & Gulf of Mexico segment; • Higher volumes and rates at our Northeast G&P segment; partially offset by • Lower rates, partially offset by higher volumes at our West segment. The net sum of Service revenues – commodity consideration , Product sales , Product costs, net realized gains and losses on commodity derivatives related to sales of product, and net realized processing commodity expenses for our reportable segments (excludes Other) comprise our Commodity margins . Product sales and net realized gains and losses on commodity derivatives at our Other segment, which reflect sales related to our upstream operations, comprise Net realized product sale s. Service revenues – commodity consideration, which represent payments we receive in the form of commodities for processing services provided, decreased primarily due to lower NGL prices. Most of these NGL volumes are sold during the month processed and are offset within Product costs below. The Product sales decrease primarily consists of: • Lower marketing sales activities at our Gas & NGL Marketing Services segment; • Lower sales from upstream operations within Other; • Lower equity NGL sales prices primarily at our West and Transmission & Gulf of Mexico segments; • Lower system management gas sales primarily at our West and Transmission & Gulf of Mexico segments. As we are acting as agent for natural gas marketing customers, our natural gas marketing product sales are presented net of the related costs of those activities within our Gas & NGL Marketing Services segment. Net gain (loss) from commodity derivatives includes realized and unrealized gains and losses from derivative instruments reflected within Total revenues primarily in our Gas & NGL Marketing Services, West, and Other segments (see Note 16 – Commodity Derivatives). We experience significant earnings volatility from the fair value accounting required for the derivatives used to hedge a portion of the economic value of the underlying transportation and storage portfolio as well as upstream-related production. However, the unrealized fair value measurement gains and losses are generally offset by valuation changes in the economic value of the underlying production or transportation and storage contracts, which is not recognized until the underlying transaction occurs. The Product costs decrease primarily consists of: • Lower marketing activities at our Gas & NGL Marketing Services segment; • Lower costs associated with NGLs acquired as commodity consideration related to our equity NGL production activities; • Lower system management gas purchases primarily at our West and Transmission & Gulf of Mexico segments. Net processing commodity expenses increased primarily due to: • Unfavorable change in unrealized gains and losses from commodity derivatives related to processing plant shrink gas purchases (see Note 16 – Commodity Derivatives); 57 • Partially offset by lower natural gas purchases due to lower prices associated with our equity NGL production activities primarily at our West and Transmission & Gulf of Mexico segments. Operating and maintenance expenses increased primarily due to higher operating costs, including increased costs associated with the February 2023 MountainWest Acquisition, the April 2022 Trace Acquisition, and the August 2022 NorTex Asset Purchase, and increased scope and timing of operating and maintenance activities. Depreciation and amortization expenses increased primarily related to our upstream assets, and assets acquired in the February 2023 MountainWest Acquisition, the April 2022 Trace Acquisition, and the August 2022 NorTex Asset Purchase. The increase is partially offset by lower amortization of intangibles related to our 2021 Sequent Acquisition. Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased primarily due to acquisition and transition-related costs associated with the MountainWest Acquisition. Gain on sale of business resulted from our sale of certain liquids pipelines in the Gulf Coast region (see       Note 3 – Acquisitions and Divestitures). Other (income) expense – net within Operating income (loss) changed favorably primarily due to: • A favorable change associated with regulatory liabilities established for the impacts of deferred income taxes at Northwest Pipeline and the absence of 2022 regulatory charges associated with a decrease in Transco’s estimated deferred state income tax rate; • The absence of a 2022 loss related to Eminence storage cavern abandonments; • A 2023 gain related to a contract settlement. Equity earnings (losses) changed unfavorably primarily due to a decrease at Laurel Mountain and our share of a loss contingency accrual related to our 14 percent ownership in Aux Sable Liquid Products LP, partially offset by increases at Blue Racer and OPPL. The favorable change in Other investing income (loss) – net includes higher interest income earned on higher cash and cash equivalent balances, and a gain on remeasuring our existing equity-method investment in RMM to fair value with the acquisition of the remaining 50 percent ownership (see Note 3 – Acquisitions and Divestitures). The increase in Interest expense was primarily due to our 2023 debt issuances and MountainWest's long-term debt (see Note 12 – Debt and Banking Arrangements), partially offset by an increase in interest capitalized related to ongoing expansion projects. The Net gain from Energy Transfer litigation judgment resulted from a favorable ruling on the final order and judgment of our complaint against Energy Transfer (see Note 17 – Contingencies and Commitments). The favorable change in Other income (expense) – net below Operating income (loss) includes an increase in equity allowance for funds used during construction (equity AFUDC) at our Transmission & Gulf of Mexico segment and the related effects of deferred taxes within Other. Provision (benefit) for income taxes changed unfavorably primarily due to higher pre-tax income, the absence of a benefit related to the release of valuation allowances on deferred income tax assets in 2022, a lower benefit associated with decreases in our estimate of the state deferred income tax rate in both periods, and the absence of 2022 federal income tax settlements. See Note 6 – Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes for a discussion of the effective tax rate compared to the federal statutory rate for both periods. Income (loss) from discontinued operations in 2023 includes a pre-tax charge of $125 million to increase the related accrued liability associated with our Alaska refinery contamination litigation, partially offset by the related income tax effect (see Note 17 – Contingencies and Commitments). 58 The unfavorable change in Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests is primarily due to higher results at Cardinal and the Northeast JV. 2022 vs. 2021 Service revenues increased primarily due to higher gathering and processing rates driven by favorable commodity prices and annual contractual rate escalations for certain of our West and Northeast G&P operations, higher volumes including from the Trace Acquisition and NorTex Asset Purchase, higher transportation fee revenues associated with the Leidy South expansion project placed fully in service at Transco in December 2021, and higher reimbursable electric power costs and storage rates which are substantially offset in Operating and maintenance expenses . Service revenues – commodity consideration increased primarily due to higher NGL prices, partially offset by lower NGL volumes. These revenues represent consideration we receive in the form of commodities as full or partial payment for processing services provided. Most of these NGL volumes are sold during the month processed and therefore are offset within Product costs below. Product sales increased primarily due to higher marketing sales prices and volumes, including increased volumes associated with the Sequent Acquisition in third-quarter 2021 and the Trace Acquisition in second-quarter 2022. Product sales also increased due to higher sales volumes and prices associated with our upstream operations and system management gas sales, as well as higher prices and lower volumes related to our equity NGL sales activities. These increases were partially offset by an unfavorable change in natural gas marketing sales primarily due to the impact of netting the 2022 legacy natural gas marketing revenues with the associated costs (see Note 1 – General, Description of Business, Basis of Presentation, and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies). As we are acting as agent for natural gas marketing customers of our Gas & NGL Marketing Services segment, our natural gas marketing product sales are presented net of the related costs of those activities, including significant 2022 lower of cost or net realizable value adjustments to our natural gas inventory. The unfavorable change in Net gain (loss) from commodity derivatives primarily reflects higher net unrealized losses in our Gas & NGL Marketing Services segment, and higher net realized losses related to derivative contracts in our Other segment. Lower net realized losses at our West segment and a net unrealized gain at our Other segment in 2022 partially offset these impacts. Product costs decreased primarily due to the impact of netting the 2022 legacy natural gas marketing revenues with the associated costs. This decrease was partially offset by higher prices and volumes associated with our NGL marketing activities, including the increase in volumes associated with the Trace Acquisition in second-quarter 2022, as well as significant 2022 lower of cost or net realizable value adjustments to our NGL inventory. Product costs also increased due to higher system management gas purchases and higher NGL prices associated with volumes acquired as commodity consideration related to our equity NGL production activities. Net processing commodity expenses decreased primarily due to the impact of a 2022 net unrealized gain from derivatives for processing plant shrink gas purchases and lower volumes for natural gas purchases associated with our equity NGL production activities, partially offset by higher net realized prices. Operating and maintenance expenses increased primarily due to higher operating and maintenance costs, including $63 million of higher reimbursable electric power and storage costs which are substantially offset in Service revenues. The increase was also a result of higher expenses associated with our upstream operations, increased costs associated with Transco's Leidy South expansion project placed in service in December 2021, higher employee-related expenses, and higher expenses associated with the 2022 Trace Acquisition and NorTex Asset Purchase. Depreciation and amortization expenses increased primarily due to amortization of intangibles acquired in the Sequent and Trace Acquisitions and an increase in depreciation at Transco related to ARO revisions (offset in Other (income) expense – net within Operating income (loss) resulting in no net impact on our results of operations), partially offset by the absence of 2021 depreciation on certain decommissioned facilities in our West segment. 59 Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased primarily due to higher employee-related expenses driven by the Sequent Acquisition in July 2021 and higher expenses for various corporate costs, including technology costs to support efforts to track and quantify emissions associated with natural gas procurement, transmission, and delivery. Other (income) expense – net within Operating income (loss) changed unfavorably primarily due to charges related to Eminence storage cavern abandonments and monitoring, as well as regulatory charges associated with a decrease in Transco’s estimated deferred state income tax rate, offset by the deferral of ARO depreciation (offset in Depreciation and amortization expenses resulting in no net impact on our results of operations). Equity earnings (losses) changed favorably primarily due to increases at investments across our West segment, including RMM, and at Laurel Mountain, partially offset by a decrease at Appalachia Midstream Investments. Provision (benefit) for income taxes changed favorably primarily due to a benefit associated with a decrease in our estimate of the state deferred income tax rate, a benefit related to the release of a valuation allowance, and federal settlements, partially offset by higher pre-tax income. See Note 6 – Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes for a discussion of the effective tax rate compared to the federal statutory rate for both periods. The unfavorable change in Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests is primarily due to higher results at the Northeast JV. Year-Over-Year Operating Results – Segments We evaluate segment operating performance based upon Modified EBITDA . Note 18 – Segment Disclosures includes a reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to Net income (loss) . Management uses Modified EBITDA because it is an accepted financial indicator used by investors to compare company performance. In addition, management believes that this measure provides investors an enhanced perspective of the operating performance of our assets. Modified EBITDA should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for a measure of performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Transmission & Gulf of Mexico _______________ (1) Included as a component of Commodity margins . 60 2023 vs. 2022 Transmission & Gulf of Mexico Modified EBITDA increased primarily due to higher Service revenues and a Gain on sale of business. Service revenues increased primarily due to: • A $222 million increase due to the acquisition of MountainWest primarily in transportation and storage revenues; • A $42 million increase due to the NorTex Asset Purchase primarily in storage and transportation revenues; • A $30 million increase in the Eastern Gulf Coast region primarily due to higher production handling volumes from new wells at Devils Tower, partially offset by lower volumes from the Norphlet pipeline due to natural decline; • A $15 million increase in Transco’s revenues associated with the Regional Energy Access expansion project placed partially in-service in the fourth quarter of 2023; • A $12 million increase in Transco’s and Northwest Pipeline’s revenues associated with short-term firm transportation; partially offset by • A $19 million decrease due to lower rates from the FERC rate case settlement effective January 1, 2023, at Northwest Pipeline; • A $14 million decrease in reimbursable electric power costs and storage rates, offset by similar changes in electricity charges and storage costs, reflected in Other segment costs and expenses; • A $10 million decrease due to the sale of certain liquids pipelines in the Gulf Coast region in September 2023 primarily in transportation revenues (see Note 3 – Acquisitions and Divestitures). Commodity margins decreased primarily due to a $15 million decrease from our equity NGLs, driven by unfavorable net realized pricing for equity NGL sales, partially offset by lower prices for natural gas purchases associated with our equity NGL production activities. Other segment costs and expenses increased primarily due to: • Higher operating and administrative costs including higher operating, acquisition, and transition costs related to our MountainWest Acquisition and NorTex Asset Purchase; and higher costs related to timing and scope of general maintenance activities primarily at Transco, partially offset by lower reimbursable electric power costs and storage costs, which are offset by a similar change in electricity reimbursements and storage revenues reflected in Service revenues ; and lower employee-related costs; • Higher project feasibility costs; partially offset by • Favorable changes associated with regulatory liabilities established for the impacts of deferred income taxes at Northwest Pipeline associated with the FERC rate case settlement mentioned above in Service revenues and the absence of 2022 regulatory charges associated with decreases in Transco’s estimated deferred state income tax rate; • A favorable change in equity AFUDC as a result of increased capital expenditures at Transco; • The absence of losses related to Eminence storage cavern abandonments in 2022. Gain on sale of business reflects a gain recognized on the sale of certain liquids pipelines in the Gulf Coast region in September 2023 (see Note 3 – Acquisitions and Divestitures). 61 2022 vs. 2021 Transmission & Gulf of Mexico Modified EBITDA increased primarily due to higher Service revenues , partially offset by higher Other segment costs and expenses. Service revenues increased primarily due to: • A $163 million increase in Transco’s service revenues primarily associated with the Leidy South expansion project placed fully in service in December 2021, park and loan services, short-term firm transportation, overall demand, and commodity fee revenues. Additionally, 2022 benefited from higher reimbursable electric power costs and storage rates effective since the second quarter of 2022, partially offset by lower cash out surcharges, all of which are offset by similar changes in electricity, storage and cash out charges reflected in Other segment costs and expenses; • A $21 million increase in the Eastern Gulf Coast region primarily due to higher production handling and gathering volumes from the absence of temporary shut-ins due to producer operational issues and weather-related events in 2021, partially offset by a decrease at Gulfstar One for the Tubular Bells field primarily due to lower production handling, gathering and transportation volumes from natural decline; • A $16 million increase primarily related to storage and transportation revenues due to the acquisition of NorTex in August 2022; partially offset by • A $13 million decrease in the Western Gulf Coast region primarily at Perdido due to lower transportation and gathering volumes from temporary downtime from producer operational issues in 2022. Commodity margins associated with our equity NGLs increased $5 million primarily driven by favorable NGL sales prices, partially offset by higher prices for natural gas purchases associated with our equity NGL production activities. Other segment costs and expenses increased primarily due to higher operating costs including higher reimbursable electric power costs and storage costs, partially offset by favorable cash out charges, all of which are offset by similar changes in electricity reimbursements, cash out charges, and storage revenues reflected in Service revenues. Additionally, 2022 was impacted by higher costs associated with the Leidy South expansion project; maintenance costs primarily related to general maintenance at Transco, Gulf Coast region, and Northwest Pipeline; charges related to Eminence storage cavern abandonments and monitoring; and regulatory charges associated with a decrease in Transco’s estimated deferred state income tax rate, higher employee-related costs, corporate allocations, and operations acquired in the NorTex Asset Purchase. These increases are partially offset by a favorable change in the deferral of ARO related depreciation at Transco. 62 Northeast G&P (1) Included as a component of Commodity margins . 2023 vs. 2022 Northeast G&P Modified EBITDA increased primarily due to higher Service revenues , partially offset by lower Proportional Modified EBITDA of equity-method investments and higher Other segment costs and expenses . Service revenues increased primarily due to: • A $92 million increase in revenues at the Northeast JV primarily related to higher transportation & fractionation, processing, and gathering volumes as well as higher processing rates; • An $84 million increase in revenues in the Utica Shale region primarily related to higher gathering rates resulting from annual cost of service contract redeterminations and higher volumes, partially offset by the absence of proceeds from the release of an acreage dedication in 2022; • A $61 million increase in gathering revenues at Susquehanna Supply Hub primarily related to escalated rates as well as higher volumes. Other segment costs and expenses increased primarily due to increased scope of operations, a loss contingency accrual, and higher operating taxes. Proportional Modified EBITDA of equity-method investments decreased at Laurel Mountain due to lower commodity-based gathering rates, MVC, and volumes, and at Aux Sable Liquid Products LP primarily due to our $31 million share of a loss contingency accrual related to our 14 percent ownership. The decrease was partially offset by an increase at Blue Racer primarily driven by higher gathering and processing volumes. Additionally, Appalachia Midstream Investments increased primarily driven by higher gathering volumes and annual rate escalations at Marcellus South, partially offset by lower gathering rates resulting from annual cost of service contract redeterminations and lower volumes at the Bradford Supply Hub. 63 2022 vs. 2021 Northeast G&P Modified EBITDA increased primarily due to higher Service revenues , partially offset by lower Proportional Modified EBITDA of equity-method investments and higher Other segment costs and expenses . Service revenues increased primarily due to: • A $64 million increase in revenues at the Northeast JV primarily related to higher gathering, processing, and fractionation volumes as well as higher processing rates; • A $43 million increase in revenues in the Utica Shale region primarily related to higher gathering rates resulting from annual cost of service contract redeterminations, as well as proceeds from the release of an acreage dedication; • A $14 million increase in revenues associated with reimbursable expenses, which is offset by similar changes in the charges reflected in Other segment costs and expenses; • No change in revenues at Susquehanna Supply Hub primarily related to higher gathering rates, offset by lower gathering volumes. Other segment costs and expenses increased primarily due to higher operating expenses, including higher electricity and fuel, which is partially offset in Service revenues . Proportional Modified EBITDA of equity-method investments decreased at Appalachia Midstream Investments primarily driven by lower gathering rates resulting from annual cost of service contract redeterminations as well as lower volumes. Additionally, there was a decrease at Blue Racer primarily due to lower volumes. The decrease was partially offset by an increase at Laurel Mountain primarily due to higher commodity-based gathering rates. 64 West ________________ (1) Included as a component of Commodity margins . 2023 vs. 2022 West Modified EBITDA increased primarily due to a favorable change in Net realized gain (loss) from commodity derivatives relating to service revenues, higher Proportional Modified EBITDA of equity-method investments, and lower Other segment costs and expenses, partially offset by lower Commodity margins and Service revenues. Service revenues decreased primarily due to: • A $120 million decrease in the Barnett Shale region primarily due to lower gathering rates driven by unfavorable commodity pricing; • A $13 million decrease in the Eagle Ford Shale region primarily due to lower MVC revenues, partially offset by escalated gathering rates and higher gathering volumes; • A $6 million decrease associated with reimbursable compressor power and fuel purchases primarily due to lower prices, which are offset by similar changes in Other segment costs and expenses ; partially offset by • A $69 million increase in the Haynesville Shale region primarily associated with higher gathering volumes including from increased producer activity and the Trace Acquisition in April 2022, partially offset by lower rates driven by unfavorable commodity pricing; • A $25 million increase in the DJ Basin region primarily associated with the DJ Basin Acquisitions in November 2023 (see Note 3 – Acquisitions and Divestitures); 65 • A $15 million increase in our other NGL operations associated with higher storage fees primarily due to a new contract as well as higher fractionation fees primarily due to higher volumes partially offset by lower rates from lower natural gas prices. Net realized gain (loss) from commodity derivatives relating to service revenues reflects a favorable change in settled commodity prices relative to our natural gas hedge positions. Commodity margins decreased $68 million primarily due a $46 million decrease from our equity NGLs and a $14 million decrease from other sales activities, both primarily due to lower net realized commodity pricing. Other segment costs and expenses decreased primarily due to a favorable change in our net imbalance liability due to changes in pricing, favorable contract settlements in first-quarter 2023, lower corporate allocations, and lower reimbursable compressor power and fuel purchases which are substantially offset in Service revenues. These items were partially offset by higher operating expenses related to operations including those acquired in the Trace Acquisition and the DJ Basin Acquisitions, lower system gains at Wamsutter, and a fourth quarter 2023 write-down of assets held for sale. Proportional Modified EBITDA of equity-method investments increased primarily due to higher volumes at OPPL as well as higher volumes at RMM, partially offset by lower proportional results as RMM was consolidated as of November 30, 2023. 2022 vs. 2021 West Modified EBITDA increased primarily due to higher Service revenues and a favorable change in Net realized gain (loss) from commodity derivatives, partially offset by higher Other segment costs and expenses. Service revenues increased primarily due to: • A $186 million increase in the Haynesville Shale region primarily due to higher gathering volumes including volumes from the Trace Acquisition as well as higher gathering rates driven by favorable commodity pricing; • A $96 million increase in the Barnett Shale region primarily due to higher gathering rates driven by favorable commodity pricing; • A $14 million increase associated with higher fractionation fees primarily due to higher fractionation volumes from a new contract; • A $4 million increase in the Eagle Ford Shale region primarily due to higher MVC revenues, escalated gathering rates, and higher deferred revenue amortization, substantially offset by lower volumes due to decreased producer activity; partially offset by • A $10 million decrease in the Wamsutter region primarily due to lower MVC revenue. Net realized gain (loss) from commodity derivatives relating to service revenues changed favorably due to a change in settled commodity prices relative to our hedge positions. Product margins from our equity NGLs increased $6 million primarily due to higher net realized NGL sales prices, partially offset by higher net realized prices for natural gas purchases associated with our equity NGL production activities. Additionally, volumes of equity NGL sold and natural gas purchased associated with our equity NGL production activities were lower primarily due to a customer contract change. Margins from other sales activities increased $16 million primarily due to higher condensate sales and favorable pricing. Marketing margins decreased $20 million primarily due to the absence of the favorable impact of Winter Storm Uri in the first quarter of 2021. Other segment costs and expenses increased primarily due to higher operating expenses related to timing and scope of activities including from operations acquired in the Trace Acquisition, the absence of gains on asset sales in 66 2021, higher corporate allocations, acquisition-related costs associated with the Trace Acquisition, and an unfavorable change in our net imbalance liability due to changes in pricing. Proportional Modified EBITDA of equity-method investments increased primarily due to higher volumes at OPPL and higher commodity prices and volumes at RMM. Gas & NGL Marketing Services ________________ (1) Included as a component of Commodity margins . 2023 vs. 2022 Gas & NGL Marketing Services Modified EBITDA increased primarily due to a favorable change in Net unrealized gain (loss) from commodity derivative instruments within Segment revenues and higher Commodity margins , partially offset by an unfavorable change in Net unrealized gain (loss) from commodity derivative instruments within Net processing commodity expenses . Commodity margins increased $66 million primarily due to: • A $65 million increase from our natural gas marketing operations including $129 million of higher natural gas storage marketing margins primarily driven by a favorable change of $111 million in lower of cost or net realizable value adjustment; and the absence of a $15 million charge related to the remaining recognition of a purchase accounting inventory fair value adjustment in 2022. The increase in our natural gas marketing margins was partially offset by $64 million of lower natural gas transportation capacity marketing margins due to less favorable net realized pricing spreads; • A $1 million increase in our NGL marketing margins including a $20 million favorable change in lower of cost or net realizable value inventory adjustments, partially offset by higher transportation and fractionation fees and an unfavorable change in net realized gains and losses on sale of inventory in 2023 compared to 2022 driven by an unfavorable change in NGL prices. Net unrealized gain (loss) from commodity derivative instruments within Segment revenues and Net processing commodity expenses relates to derivative contracts that are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes. The change from 2022 is primarily due to a change in forward commodity prices relative to our hedge positions in 2023 compared to 2022. 67 2022 vs. 2021 Gas & NGL Marketing Services Modified EBITDA decreased primarily due to higher net unrealized loss from derivative instruments and higher Other segment costs and expenses , partially offset by higher Commodity margins . Commodity margins increased $158 million primarily due to: • A $188 million increase in natural gas marketing margins which included the following: ◦ A $301 million increase in natural gas transportation capacity marketing margins primarily resulting from the Sequent Acquisition in the third quarter of 2021 and an increase in favorable pricing spreads in 2022 compared to 2021; partially offset by ◦ A $58 million decrease associated with our legacy natural gas marketing operations primarily due to the absence of the favorable impact of Winter Storm Uri in the first quarter of 2021; ◦ A $55 million decrease in natural gas storage marketing margins due primarily to an increase in lower of cost or net realizable value inventory adjustments of $115 million and higher storage fees, partially offset by higher storage withdrawals in 2022 compared to 2021. • A $30 million decrease in our NGL marketing margins primarily due to lower of cost or net realizable value inventory adjustments in 2022. Net unrealized gain (loss) from commodity derivative instruments changed primarily due to the Sequent Acquisition in July 2021, and a change in forward commodity prices relative to our hedge positions in 2022 compared to 2021. Other segment costs and expenses increased primarily due to higher employee-related costs related to the Sequent Acquisition and higher corporate allocations. Other ________________ (1) Included as a component of Net realized product sales . 68 2023 vs. 2022 Other Modified EBITDA increased primarily due to the Net gain from Energy Transfer litigation judgmen t (see Note 17 – Contingencies and Commitments), partially offset by lower results from our upstream operations, which included the following: • $113 million decrease in Net realized product sales primarily due to lower net realized commodity prices, partially offset by higher sales associated with increased production volumes. Higher natural gas production volumes from new wells in our Haynesville Shale region and higher crude oil production volumes from new wells in our Wamsutter region were partially offset by lower natural gas and NGL production volumes in our Wamsutter region driven by the impact of severe winter weather in 2023; • A $24 million unfavorable change in Net unrealized gain (loss) from commodity derivative instruments due to a change in forward commodity prices relative to our hedge positions in 2023 compared to 2022; partially offset by • An increase in Other segment costs and expenses associated with our upstream operations primarily due to increased production volumes and expenses related to severe winter weather in 2023, partially offset by lower associated ad valorem and production taxes, which were impacted by lower commodity prices and lower natural gas and NGL production volumes in our Wamsutter region. Other segment costs and expenses not associated with our upstream operations decreased primarily due to the absence of an $11 million charge related to an accrual for loss contingency in the third quarter of 2022 and a $19 million favorable change associated with regulatory assets related to the effects of deferred taxes on equity funds used during construction. 2022 vs. 2021 Other Modified EBITDA increased primarily due to $248 million higher results from our upstream operations which included the following: • A $289 million increase in Net realized product sales primarily due to higher commodity prices in 2022, partially offset by the absence of the favorable impact of Winter Storm Uri in 2021 and an unfavorable change in Net realized gain (loss) from commodity derivative instruments due to an increase in commodity prices relative to our hedge positions and an increase in the volume of production hedged in 2022 compared to 2021. Net realized product sales also increased due to higher production from new wells and higher volumes associated with acquisitions of additional ownership interests in 2021; • A $25 million favorable change in Net unrealized gain (loss) from commodity derivative instruments due to a change in forward commodity prices relative to our hedge positions and an increase in the volume of production hedged in 2022 compared to 2021; partially offset by • A $66 million increase in Other segment costs and expenses primarily due to the increased scale of our upstream operations and higher associated production taxes, which were also impacted by higher commodity prices and higher volumes as well as higher tax rates. Other segment costs and expenses also includes an $11 million charge related to an accrual for loss contingency in 2022, substantially offset by the absence of a $10 million charge related to an accrual for loss contingency in 2021. 69 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Liquidity Overview We have continued to focus on earnings and cash flow growth, noting significant increases in both net income and cash provided by operating activities. During 2023, investing and financing expenditures included $2.5 billion of capital expenditures, $1.6 billion of acquisitions including MountainWest and Cureton, and $2.2 billion of dividends paid to common shareholders. These expenditures were funded in part by $5.9 billion of cash provided by operating activities (which includes a net $534 million related to our favorable Energy Transfer litigation outcome - see Note 17 – Contingencies and Commitments), and cash from borrowing activities of $2.5 billion. Our financial position also reflects the deferred consideration obligation for the RMM Acquisition (see Note 3 – Acquisitions and Divestitures). We ended the year with $2.150 billion of Cash and cash equivalents as reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. See also the following section titled Sources (Uses) of Cash . Outlook Our growth capital and investment expenditures in 2024 are currently expected to be in a range from $1.45 billion to $1.75 billion, excluding the Gulf Coast Storage Acquisition for $1.95 billion (see Note 3 – Acquisitions and Divestitures). Growth capital spending in 2024 primarily includes Transco expansions, all of which are fully contracted with firm transportation agreements, projects supporting growth in the Haynesville Basin, and projects supporting the Northeast G&P business. We also expect to invest capital in our Other segment ventures. In addition to growth capital and investment expenditures, we also remain committed to projects that maintain our assets for safe and reliable operations, as well as projects that reduce emissions, and meet legal, regulatory, and/or contractual commitments. We intend to fund substantially all planned 2024 capital spending with cash available after paying dividends. We retain the flexibility to adjust planned levels of growth capital and investment expenditures in response to changes in economic conditions or business opportunities including the repurchase of our common stock. On January 5, 2024, we issued $2.1 billion in long-term debt (see Note 12 – Debt and Banking Arrangements). As of December 31, 2023, we have approximately $2.337 billion of long-term debt due within one year. Our potential sources of liquidity available to address these maturities include cash on hand, proceeds from refinancing, our credit facility, or our commercial paper program, as well as proceeds from asset monetizations. Liquidity Based on our forecasted levels of cash flow from operations and other sources of liquidity, we expect to have sufficient liquidity to manage our businesses in 2024. Our potential material internal and external sources and uses of liquidity are as follows: 70 At December 31, 2023, we have approximately $23.376 billion of long-term debt due after one year. See     Note 12 – Debt and Banking Arrangements for the aggregate maturities over the next five years. Our potential sources of liquidity available to address these maturities include cash generated from operations, proceeds from refinancing, our credit facility, or our commercial paper program, as well as proceeds from asset monetizations. Potential risks associated with our planned levels of liquidity discussed above include those previously discussed in Company Outlook . At December 31, 2023, we had a working capital deficit of $1.317 billion, including cash and cash equivalents and long-term debt due within one year. Our available liquidity is as follows: __________ (1) In managing our available liquidity, we do not expect a maximum outstanding amount in excess of the capacity of our credit facility inclusive of any outstanding amounts under our commercial paper program. We had $725 million of commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2023. The highest amount outstanding under our commercial paper program and credit facility during 2023 was $730 million. At December 31, 2023, we were in compliance with the financial covenants associated with our credit facility. See Note 12 – Debt and Banking Arrangements for additional information on our credit facility and commercial paper program. Dividends We increased our regular quarterly cash dividend to common stockholders by approximately 5.3 percent from the $0.425 per share paid in each quarter of 2022, to $0.4475 per share paid in each quarter of 2023. Registrations Prior to the expiration of our shelf registration statement, we anticipate filing a new shelf registration statement as a well-known seasoned issuer. Distributions from Equity-Method Investees The organizational documents of entities in which we have an equity-method investment generally require periodic distributions of their available cash to their members. In each case, available cash is reduced, in part, by reserves appropriate for operating their respective businesses. See Note 8 – Investing Activities for our more significant equity-method investees. Credit Ratings The interest rates at which we are able to borrow money are impacted by our credit ratings. The current ratings are as follows: These credit ratings are included for informational purposes and are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold our securities, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. No assurance can be given that the credit rating agencies will continue to assign us investment-grade ratings even if we meet or exceed their current 71 criteria for investment-grade ratios. A downgrade of our credit ratings might increase our future cost of borrowing and, if ratings were to fall below investment-grade, could require us to provide additional collateral to third parties, negatively impacting our available liquidity. Sources (Uses) of Cash The following table summarizes the sources (uses) of cash and cash equivalents for each of the periods presented (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Notes referenced in the table): Operating activities The factors that determine operating activities are largely the same as those that affect Net income (loss) , with the exception of noncash items such as Depreciation and amortization , Provision (benefit) for deferred income taxes , Equity (earnings) losses , Net unrealized (gain) loss from commodity derivative instruments , Gain on sale of business, Inventory write-downs, and Amortization of stock-based awards. Our Net cash provided (used) by operating activities in 2023 increased from 2022 primarily due to higher operating income (excluding noncash items as previously discussed), as well as favorable changes in net operating working capital and margin requirements, partially offset by lower Distributions from equity-method investees . Our Net cash provided (used) by operating activities in 2022 increased from 2021 primarily due to higher operating income (excluding noncash items as previously discussed), favorable changes in margin requirements, and higher Distributions from equity-method investees , partially offset by net unfavorable changes in net operating working capital. Environmental We are a participant in certain environmental activities in various stages including assessment studies, cleanup operations, and/or remedial processes at certain sites, some of which we currently do not own (see Note 17 – Contingencies and Commitments). We are monitoring these sites in a coordinated effort with other potentially responsible parties, the EPA, or other governmental authorities. We are jointly and severally liable along with 72 unrelated third parties in some of these activities and solely responsible in others. Current estimates of the most likely costs of such activities are approximately $48 million, all of which are included in Accrued and other current liabilities and Regulatory liabilities, deferred income, and other in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2023. We will seek to recover approximately $3 million of accrued costs related to remediation activities by our interstate gas pipelines through future natural gas transmission rates. The remainder of these costs will be funded from operations. During 2023, we paid approximately $7 million for cleanup and/or remediation and monitoring activities. We expect to pay approximately $9 million in 2024 for these activities. Estimates of the most likely costs of cleanup are generally based on completed assessment studies, preliminary results of studies, or our experience with other similar cleanup operations. At December 31, 2023, certain assessment studies were still in process for which the ultimate outcome may yield different estimates of most likely costs. Therefore, the actual costs incurred will depend on the final amount, type, and extent of contamination discovered at these sites, the final cleanup standards mandated by the EPA or other governmental authorities, and other factors. The EPA and various state regulatory agencies routinely propose and promulgate new rules and issue updated guidance to existing rules. These rulemakings include, but are not limited to, rules for reciprocating internal combustion engine and combustion turbine maximum achievable control technology, reviews and updates to the National Ambient Air Quality Standards, and rules for new and existing source performance standards for volatile organic compounds and methane. We continuously monitor these regulatory changes and how they may impact our operations. Implementation of new or modified regulations may result in impacts to our operations and increase the cost of additions to Property, plant, and equipment – net in the Consolidated Balance Sheet for both new and existing facilities in affected areas; however, due to regulatory uncertainty on final rule content and applicability timeframes, we are unable to reasonably estimate the cost these regulatory impacts at this time. We consider prudently incurred environmental assessment and remediation costs and the costs associated with compliance with environmental standards to be recoverable through rates for our interstate natural gas transmission pipelines. Historically, with limited exceptions, we have been permitted recovery of these environmental costs, and it is our intent to continue seeking recovery of such costs through future rate filings. 73