********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 The reports, filings, and other public announcements of Williams may contain or incorporate by reference statements that do not directly or exclusively relate to historical facts. Such statements are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements relate to anticipated financial performance, management’s plans and objectives for future operations, business prospects, outcomes of regulatory proceedings, market conditions, and other matters. We make these forward-looking statements in reliance on the safe harbor protections provided under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in this report that address activities, events, or developments that we expect, believe, or anticipate will exist or may occur in the future, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can be identified by various forms of words such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “seeks,” “could,” “may,” “should,” “continues,” “estimates,” “expects,” “forecasts,” “intends,” “might,” “goals,” “objectives,” “targets,” “planned,” “potential,” “projects,” “scheduled,” “will,” “assumes,” “guidance,” “outlook,” “in-service date,” or other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on management’s beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to management and include, among others, statements regarding: • Levels of dividends to Williams stockholders; • Future credit ratings of Williams and its affiliates; • Amounts and nature of future capital expenditures; • Expansion and growth of our business and operations; • Expected in-service dates for capital projects; • Financial condition and liquidity; • Business strategy; • Cash flow from operations or results of operations; • Seasonality of certain business components; • Natural gas, natural gas liquids, and crude oil prices, supply, and demand; • Demand for our services; • The impact of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions, uncertainties, and risks that could cause future events or results to be materially different from those stated or implied in this report. Many of the factors that will determine these results are beyond our ability to control or predict. Specific factors that could cause actual results to differ from results contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: • Availability of supplies, market demand, and volatility of prices; • Development and rate of adoption of alternative energy sources; • The impact of existing and future laws and regulations, the regulatory environment, environmental liabilities, and litigation, as well as our ability to obtain necessary permits and approvals, and achieve favorable rate proceeding outcomes; • Our exposure to the credit risk of our customers and counterparties; 22 • Our ability to acquire new businesses and assets and successfully integrate those operations and assets into existing businesses as well as successfully expand our facilities, and to consummate asset sales on acceptable terms; • Whether we are able to successfully identify, evaluate, and timely execute our capital projects and investment opportunities; • The strength and financial resources of our competitors and the effects of competition; • The amount of cash distributions from and capital requirements of our investments and joint ventures in which we participate; • Whether we will be able to effectively execute our financing plan; • Increasing scrutiny and changing expectations from stakeholders with respect to our environmental, social, and governance practices; • The physical and financial risks associated with climate change; • The impacts of operational and developmental hazards and unforeseen interruptions; • The risks resulting from outbreaks or other public health crises, including COVID-19; • Risks associated with weather and natural phenomena, including climate conditions and physical damage to our facilities; • Acts of terrorism, cybersecurity incidents, and related disruptions; • Our costs and funding obligations for defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans; • Changes in maintenance and construction costs, as well as our ability to obtain sufficient construction- related inputs, including skilled labor; • Inflation, interest rates, and general economic conditions (including future disruptions and volatility in the global credit markets and the impact of these events on customers and suppliers); • Risks related to financing, including restrictions stemming from debt agreements, future changes in credit ratings as determined by nationally recognized credit rating agencies, and the availability and cost of capital; • The ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and other oil exporting nations to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls and the impact on domestic production; • Changes in the current geopolitical situation; • Changes in U.S. governmental administration and policies; • Whether we are able to pay current and expected levels of dividends; • Additional risks described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Given the uncertainties and risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligations to and do not intend to update the above list or announce publicly the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments. In addition to causing our actual results to differ, the factors listed above and referred to below may cause our intentions to change from those statements of intention set forth in this report. Such changes in our intentions may also cause our results to differ. We may change our intentions, at any time and without notice, based upon changes in such factors, our assumptions, or otherwise. Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, we caution that there are important factors, in addition to those listed above, that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors are described in the following section. 23 RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information in this report. Each of these factors could adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and, in some cases our reputation. The occurrence of any of such risks could also adversely affect the value of an investment in our securities. Risks Related to Our Business The financial condition of our natural gas transportation and midstream businesses is dependent on the continued availability of natural gas supplies in the supply basins that we access and demand for those supplies in the markets we serve. Our ability to maintain and expand our natural gas transportation and midstream businesses depends on the level of drilling and production by third parties in our supply basins. Production from existing wells and natural gas supply basins with access to our pipeline and gathering systems will naturally decline over time. The amount of natural gas reserves underlying these existing wells may also be less than anticipated, and the rate at which production from these reserves declines may be greater than anticipated. We do not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas reserves connected to our systems and processing facilities. Accordingly, we do not have independent estimates of total reserves dedicated to our systems or the anticipated life of such reserves. In addition, low prices for natural gas, regulatory limitations, including environmental regulations, or the lack of available capital have, and may continue to, adversely affect the development and production of existing or additional natural gas reserves and the installation of gathering, storage, and pipeline transportation facilities. The import and export of natural gas supplies may also be affected by such conditions. Low natural gas prices in one or more of our existing supply basins, whether caused by a lack of infrastructure or otherwise, could also result in depressed natural gas production in such basins and limit the supply of natural gas made available to us. The competition for natural gas supplies to serve other markets could also reduce the amount of natural gas supply for our customers. A failure to obtain access to sufficient natural gas supplies will adversely impact our ability to maximize the capacities of our gathering, transportation, and processing facilities. Demand for our services is dependent on the demand for gas in the markets we serve. Alternative fuel sources such as electricity, coal, fuel oils, or nuclear energy, as well as technological advances and renewable sources of energy, could reduce demand for natural gas in our markets and have an adverse effect on our business. A failure to obtain access to sufficient natural gas supplies or a reduction in demand for our services in the markets we serve could result in impairments of our assets and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Prices for natural gas, NGLs, oil, and other commodities, are volatile and this volatility has and could continue to adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, access to capital, and ability to maintain or grow our businesses. Our revenues, operating results, future rate of growth, and the value of certain components of our businesses depend primarily upon the prices of natural gas, NGLs, oil, or other commodities, and the differences between prices of these commodities and could be materially adversely affected by an extended period of low commodity prices, or a decline in commodity prices. Price volatility has and could continue to impact both the amount we receive for our products and services and the volume of products and services we sell. Prices affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. Price volatility has and could continue to have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. The markets for natural gas, NGLs, oil, and other commodities are likely to continue to be volatile. Wide fluctuations in prices might result from one or more factors beyond our control, including: • Imbalances in supply and demand whether rising from worldwide or domestic supplies of and demand for natural gas, NGLs, oil, and related commodities; • Turmoil in the Middle East and other producing regions; 24 • The activities of OPEC and other countries, whether acting independently of or informally aligned with OPEC, which have significant oil, natural gas or other commodity production capabilities, including Russia; • The level of consumer demand; • The price and availability of other types of fuels or feedstocks; • The availability of pipeline capacity; • Supply disruptions, including plant outages and transportation disruptions; • The price and quantity of foreign imports and domestic exports of natural gas and oil; • Domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • The credit of participants in the markets where products are bought and sold. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and counterparties, and our credit risk management will not be able to completely eliminate such risk. We are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our customers and counterparties in the ordinary course of our business. Generally, our customers are rated investment grade, are otherwise considered creditworthy, are required to make prepayments or provide security to satisfy credit concerns, or are dependent upon us, in some cases without a readily available alternative, to provide necessary services. However, our credit procedures and policies cannot completely eliminate customer and counterparty credit risk. Our customers and counterparties include industrial customers, local distribution companies, natural gas producers, and marketers whose creditworthiness may be suddenly and disparately impacted by, among other factors, commodity price volatility, deteriorating energy market conditions, and public and regulatory opposition to energy producing activities. In a low commodity price environment certain of our customers have been or could be negatively impacted, causing them significant economic stress resulting, in some cases, in a customer bankruptcy filing or an effort to renegotiate our contracts. To the extent one or more of our key customers commences bankruptcy proceedings, our contracts with such customers may be subject to rejection under applicable provisions of the United States Bankruptcy Code or, if we so agree, may be renegotiated. Further, during any such bankruptcy proceeding, prior to assumption, rejection or renegotiation of such contracts, the bankruptcy court may temporarily authorize the payment of value for our services less than contractually required, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. If we fail to adequately assess the creditworthiness of existing or future customers and counterparties or otherwise do not take sufficient mitigating actions, including obtaining sufficient collateral, deterioration in their creditworthiness, and any resulting increase in nonpayment and/or nonperformance by them could cause us to write down or write off accounts receivable. Such write-downs or write-offs could negatively affect our operating results for the period in which they occur, and, if significant, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We face opposition to operation and expansion of our pipelines and facilities from various individuals and groups. We have experienced, and we anticipate that we will continue to face, opposition to the operation and expansion of our pipelines and facilities from governmental officials, environmental groups, landowners, tribal groups, local groups and other advocates. In some instances, we encounter opposition that disfavors hydrocarbon-based energy supplies regardless of practical implementation or financial considerations. Opposition to our operation and expansion can take many forms, including the delay or denial of required governmental permits, organized protests, attempts to block or sabotage our operations, intervention in regulatory or administrative proceedings involving our assets, or lawsuits or other actions designed to prevent, disrupt or delay the operation or expansion of our assets and business. In addition, acts of sabotage or eco-terrorism could cause significant damage or injury to people, property, or the environment or lead to extended interruptions of our operations. Any such event that delays or prevents the expansion of our business, that interrupts the revenues generated by our operations, or which causes us to make significant expenditures not covered by insurance, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 25 We may not be able to grow or effectively manage our growth. As part of our growth strategy, we consider acquisition opportunities and engage in significant capital projects. We have both a project lifecycle process and an investment evaluation process. These are processes we use to identify, evaluate, and execute on acquisition opportunities and capital projects. We may not always have sufficient and accurate information to identify and value potential opportunities and risks or our investment evaluation process may be incomplete or flawed. Regarding potential acquisitions, suitable acquisition candidates or assets may not be available on terms and conditions we find acceptable or, where multiple parties are trying to acquire an acquisition candidate or assets, we may not be chosen as the acquirer. If we are able to acquire a targeted business, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired businesses and realize anticipated benefits in a timely manner. Our growth may also be dependent upon the construction of new natural gas gathering, transportation, compression, processing or treating pipelines, and facilities, NGL transportation, or fractionation or storage facilities as well as the expansion of existing facilities. Additional risks associated with construction may include the inability to obtain rights-of-way, skilled labor, equipment, materials, permits, and other required inputs in a timely manner such that projects are completed, on time or at all, and the risk that construction cost overruns could cause total project costs to exceed budgeted costs. Additional risks associated with growing our business include, among others, that: • Changing circumstances and deviations in variables could negatively impact our investment analysis, including our projections of revenues, earnings, and cash flow relating to potential investment targets, resulting in outcomes that are materially different than anticipated; • We could be required to contribute additional capital to support acquired businesses or assets, and we may assume liabilities that were not disclosed to us, that exceed our estimates and for which contractual protections are either unavailable or prove inadequate; • Acquisitions could disrupt our ongoing business, distract management, divert financial and operational resources from existing operations and make it difficult to maintain our current business standards, controls, and procedures; • Acquisitions and capital projects may require substantial new capital, including the issuance of debt or equity, and we may not be able to access credit or capital markets or obtain acceptable terms. If realized, any of these risks could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, including the possible impairment of our assets, or cash flows. Our industry is highly competitive and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our business and operating results. We have numerous competitors in all aspects of our businesses, and additional competitors may enter our markets. Any current or future competitor that delivers natural gas, NGLs, or other commodities into the areas that we operate could offer transportation services that are more desirable to shippers than those we provide because of price, location, facilities or other factors.  In addition, current or potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or have greater financial resources than we do, which could affect our ability to make strategic investments or acquisitions. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new laws or regulations or emerging technologies or to devote greater resources to the construction, expansion, or refurbishment of their facilities than we can. Failure to successfully compete against current and future competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We do not own 100 percent of the equity interests of certain subsidiaries, including the Partially Owned Entities, which may limit our ability to operate and control these subsidiaries. Certain operations, including the Partially Owned Entities, are conducted through arrangements that may limit our ability to operate and control these operations. The operations of our current non-wholly-owned subsidiaries, including the Partially Owned Entities, are conducted in accordance with their organizational documents. We anticipate that we will enter into more such arrangements, including through new joint venture structures or new Partially Owned Entities. We may have limited 26 operational flexibility in such current and future arrangements and we may not be able to control the timing or amount of cash distributions received. In certain cases: • We cannot control the amount of cash reserves determined to be necessary to operate the business, which reduces cash available for distributions; • We cannot control the amount of capital expenditures that we are required to fund and we are dependent on third parties to fund their required share of capital expenditures; • We may be subject to restrictions or limitations on our ability to sell or transfer our interests in the jointly owned assets; • We may be forced to offer rights of participation to other joint venture participants in the area of mutual interest; • We have limited ability to influence or control certain day to day activities affecting the operations; • We may have additional obligations, such as required capital contributions, that are important to the success of the operations. In addition, conflicts of interest may arise between us, on the one hand, and other interest owners, on the other hand. If such conflicts of interest arise, we may not have the ability to control the outcome with respect to the matter in question. Disputes between us and other interest owners may also result in delays, litigation or operational impasses. The risks described above or the failure to continue such arrangements could adversely affect our ability to conduct the operations that are the subject of such arrangements which could, in turn, negatively affect our business, growth strategy, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to replace, extend, or add additional customer contracts or contracted volumes on favorable terms, or at all, which could affect our financial condition, the amount of cash available to pay dividends, and our ability to grow. We rely on a limited number of customers and producers for a significant portion of our revenues and supply of natural gas and NGLs. Although many of our customers and suppliers are subject to long-term contracts, if we are unable to replace or extend such contracts, add additional customers, or otherwise increase the contracted volumes of natural gas provided to us by current producers, in each case on favorable terms, if at all, our financial condition, growth plans, and the amount of cash available to pay dividends could be adversely affected. Our ability to replace, extend, or add additional customer or supplier contracts, or increase contracted volumes of natural gas from current producers, on favorable terms, or at all, is subject to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • The level of existing and new competition in our businesses or from alternative sources, such as electricity, renewable resources, coal, fuel oils, or nuclear energy; • Natural gas and NGL prices, demand, availability, and margins in our markets. Higher prices for energy commodities related to our businesses could result in a decline in the demand for those commodities and, therefore, in customer contracts or throughput on our pipeline systems. Also, lower energy commodity prices could negatively impact our ability to maintain or achieve favorable contractual terms, including pricing, and could also result in a decline in the production of energy commodities resulting in reduced customer contracts, supply contracts, and throughput on our pipeline systems; • General economic, financial markets, and industry conditions; • The effects of regulation on us, our customers, and our contracting practices; • Our ability to understand our customers’ expectations, efficiently and reliably deliver high quality services and effectively manage customer relationships. The results of these efforts will impact our reputation and positioning in the market. 27 Certain of our gas pipeline services are subject to long-term, fixed-price contracts that are not subject to adjustment, even if our cost to perform such services exceeds the revenues received from such contracts. Our gas pipelines provide some services pursuant to long-term, fixed-price contracts. It is possible that costs to perform services under such contracts will exceed the revenues our pipelines collect for their services. Although other services are priced at cost-based rates that are subject to adjustment in rate cases, under FERC policy, a regulated service provider and a customer may mutually agree to sign a contract for service at a “negotiated rate” that may be above or below the FERC regulated cost-based rate for that service. These “negotiated rate” contracts are not generally subject to adjustment for increased costs that could be produced by inflation or other factors relating to the specific facilities being used to perform the services. Some of our businesses are exposed to supplier concentration risks arising from dependence on a single or a limited number of suppliers. Some of our businesses may be dependent on a small number of suppliers for delivery of critical goods or services. If a supplier on which one of our businesses depends were to fail to timely supply required goods and services, such business may not be able to replace such goods and services in a timely manner or otherwise on favorable terms or at all. If our business is unable to adequately diversify or otherwise mitigate such supplier concentration risks and such risks were realized, such businesses could be subject to reduced revenues and increased expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation, and cash flows. Failure of our service providers or disruptions to our outsourcing relationships might negatively impact our ability to conduct our business. Certain of our accounting and information technology services are currently provided by third-party vendors, and sometimes from service centers outside of the United States. Services provided pursuant to these arrangements  could be disrupted. Similarly, the expiration of agreements associated with such arrangements or the transition of services between providers could lead to loss of institutional knowledge or service disruptions. Our reliance on others as service providers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. An impairment of our assets, including property, plant, and equipment, intangible assets, and/or equity-method investments, could reduce our earnings. GAAP requires us to test certain assets for impairment on either an annual basis or when events or circumstances occur which indicate that the carrying value of such assets might be impaired. The outcome of such testing could result in impairments of our assets including our property, plant, and equipment, intangible assets, and/or equity-method investments. Additionally, any asset monetizations could result in impairments if any assets are sold or otherwise exchanged for amounts less than their carrying value. If we determine that an impairment has occurred, we would be required to take an immediate noncash charge to earnings. Increasing scrutiny and changing expectations from stakeholders with respect to our environmental, social and governance practices may impose additional costs on us or expose us to new or additional risks. Companies across all industries are facing increasing scrutiny from stakeholders related to their environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) practices. Investor advocacy groups, certain institutional investors, investment funds and other influential investors are also increasingly focused on ESG practices and in recent years have placed increasing importance on the implications and social cost of their investments. Regardless of the industry, investors’ increased focus and activism related to ESG and similar matters may hinder access to capital, as investors may decide to reallocate capital or to not commit capital as a result of their assessment of a company’s ESG practices. Companies that do not adapt to or comply with investor or other stakeholder expectations and standards, which are evolving, or that are perceived to have not responded appropriately to the growing concern for ESG issues, regardless of whether there is a legal requirement to do so, may suffer from reputational damage and the business, financial condition, and/or stock price of such a company could be materially and adversely affected. We face pressures from our stockholders, who are increasingly focused on climate change, to prioritize sustainable energy practices, reduce our carbon footprint and promote sustainability. Our stockholders may require us to implement ESG procedures or standards in order to continue engaging with us, to remain invested in us or before they may make further investments in us. Additionally, we may face reputational challenges in the event our 28 ESG procedures or standards do not meet the standards set by certain constituencies.  We have adopted certain practices as highlighted in our 2019 Sustainability Report, including with respect to air emissions, biodiversity and land use, climate change and environmental stewardship. It is possible, however, that our stockholders might not be satisfied with our sustainability efforts or the speed of their adoption. If we do not meet our stockholders’ expectations, our business, ability to access capital, and/or our stock price could be harmed. Additionally, adverse effects upon the oil and gas industry related to the worldwide social and political environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from climate change, changes in political leadership and environmental policies, changes in geopolitical-social views toward fossil fuels and renewable energy, concern about the environmental impact of climate change, and investors’ expectations regarding ESG matters, may also adversely affect demand for our services. Any long-term material adverse effect on the oil and gas industry could have a significant financial and operational adverse impact on our business. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the price of our stock and our business and financial condition. We may be subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. The threat of global climate change may create physical and financial risks to our business. Energy needs vary with weather conditions. To the extent weather conditions may be affected by climate change, energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of any changes. Increased energy use due to weather changes may require us to invest in more pipelines and other infrastructure to serve increased demand. A decrease in energy use due to weather changes may affect our financial condition through decreased revenues. Extreme weather conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stresses, including service interruptions. Weather conditions outside of our operating territory could also have an impact on our revenues. To the extent the frequency of extreme weather events increases, this could increase our cost of providing service. We may not be able to pass on the higher costs to our customers or recover all costs related to mitigating these physical risks. Additionally, many climate models indicate that global warming is likely to result in rising sea levels and increased frequency and severity of weather events, which may lead to higher insurance costs, or a decrease in available coverage, for our assets in areas subject to severe weather. These climate-related changes could damage our physical assets, especially operations located in low-lying areas near coasts and river banks, and facilities situated in hurricane-prone and rain-susceptible regions. To the extent financial markets view climate change and greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions as a financial risk, this could negatively impact our cost of and access to capital. Climate change and GHG regulation could also reduce demand for our services. Our business could also be affected by the potential for lawsuits against GHG emitters, based on links drawn between GHG emissions and climate change. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions. There are operational risks associated with the gathering, transporting, storage, processing, and treating of natural gas, the fractionation, transportation, and storage of NGLs, and crude oil transportation and production handling, including: • Aging infrastructure and mechanical problems; • Damages to pipelines and pipeline blockages or other pipeline interruptions; • Uncontrolled releases of natural gas (including sour gas), NGLs, crude oil, or other products; • Collapse or failure of storage caverns; • Operator error; • Damage caused by third-party activity, such as operation of construction equipment; • Pollution and other environmental risks; • Fires, explosions, craterings, and blowouts; 29 • Security risks, including cybersecurity; • Operating in a marine environment. Any of these risks could result in loss of human life, personal injuries, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations, loss of services to our customers, reputational damage, and substantial losses to us. The location of certain segments of our facilities in or near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. An event such as those described above could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, particularly if the event is not fully covered by insurance. We face risks related to the COVID-19 pandemic and other health epidemics The global outbreak of the coronavirus (COVID-19) is currently impacting countries, communities, supply chains, and markets. We provide a critical service to our customers, which means that it is paramount that we keep our employees safe. We cannot predict whether, and the extent to which, COVID-19 will have a material impact on our business, including our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. COVID-19 poses a risk to our employees, our customers, our suppliers, and the communities in which we operate, which could negatively impact our business. To the extent that our access to the capital markets is adversely affected by COVID-19, we may need to consider alternative sources of funding for our operations and for working capital, any of which could increase our cost of capital. Measures to try to contain the virus, such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter in place orders, and shutdowns, may cause us to experience operational delays or to delay plans for growth. The extent to which COVID-19 may impact our business will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including new information concerning the severity of COVID-19 and the actions taken to contain it or treat its impact, among others. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affects our business and financial results, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other factors described in this report. Our assets and operations, as well as our customers’ assets and operations, can be adversely affected by weather and other natural phenomena. Our assets and operations, especially those located offshore, and our customers’ assets and operations can be adversely affected by hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, landslides, tornadoes, fires, and other natural phenomena and weather conditions, including extreme or unseasonable temperatures, making it more difficult for us to realize the historic rates of return associated with our assets and operations. A significant disruption in our or our customers’ operations or the occurrence of a significant liability for which we are not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our business could be negatively impacted by acts of terrorism and related disruptions. Given the volatile nature of the commodities we transport, process, store, and sell, our assets and the assets of our customers and others in our industry may be targets of terrorist activities. A terrorist attack could create significant price volatility, disrupt our business, limit our access to capital markets, or cause significant harm to our operations, such as full or partial disruption to our ability to produce, process, transport, or distribute natural gas, NGLs, or other commodities. Acts of terrorism, as well as events occurring in response to or in connection with acts of terrorism, could cause environmental repercussions that could result in a significant decrease in revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. A breach of our information technology infrastructure, including a breach caused by a cybersecurity attack on us or third parties with whom we are interconnected, may interfere with the safe operation of our assets, result in the disclosure of personal or proprietary information, and harm our reputation. We rely on our information technology infrastructure to process, transmit, and store electronic information, including information we use to safely operate our assets. Our Board of Directors has oversight responsibility with regard to assessment of the major risks inherent in our business, including cybersecurity risks, and reviews management’s efforts to address and mitigate such risks, including the establishment and implementation of policies to address cybersecurity threats. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, significant time, manpower and capital in our information technology infrastructure. However, the age, operating systems, or condition of our current information technology infrastructure and software assets and our ability to maintain and upgrade such assets 30 could affect our ability to resist cybersecurity threats. While we believe that we maintain appropriate information security policies, practices, and protocols, we regularly face cybersecurity and other security threats to our information technology infrastructure, which could include threats to our operational industrial control systems and safety systems that operate our pipelines, plants, and assets. We face unlawful attempts to gain access to our information technology infrastructure, including coordinated attacks from hackers, whether state-sponsored groups, “hacktivists”, or private individuals. We face the threat of theft and misuse of sensitive data and information, including customer and employee information. We also face attempts to gain access to information related to our assets through attempts to obtain unauthorized access by targeting acts of deception against individuals with legitimate access to physical locations or information. We also are subject to cybersecurity risks arising from the fact that our business operations are interconnected with third parties, including third-party pipelines, other facilities and our contractors and vendors. In addition, the breach of certain business systems could affect our ability to correctly record, process and report financial information. Breaches in our information technology infrastructure or physical facilities, or other disruptions including those arising from theft, vandalism, fraud, or unethical conduct, could result in damage to or destruction of our assets, unnecessary waste, safety incidents, damage to the environment, reputational damage, potential liability, the loss of contracts, the imposition of significant costs associated with remediation and litigation, heightened regulatory scrutiny, increased insurance costs, and have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. If third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our pipelines and facilities become unavailable to transport natural gas and NGLs or to treat natural gas, our revenues could be adversely affected. We depend upon third-party pipelines and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from our pipelines and facilities for the benefit of our customers. Because we do not own these third-party pipelines or other facilities, their continuing operation is not within our control. If these pipelines or facilities were to become temporarily or permanently unavailable for any reason, or if throughput were reduced because of testing, line repair, damage to pipelines or facilities, reduced operating pressures, lack of capacity, increased credit requirements or rates charged by such pipelines or facilities or other causes, we and our customers would have reduced capacity to transport, store or deliver natural gas or NGL products to end use markets or to receive deliveries of mixed NGLs, thereby reducing our revenues. Any temporary or permanent interruption at any key pipeline interconnection or in operations on third-party pipelines or facilities that would cause a material reduction in volumes transported on our pipelines or our gathering systems or processed, fractionated, treated, or stored at our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our operating results for certain components of our business might fluctuate on a seasonal basis. Revenues from certain components of our business can have seasonal characteristics. In many parts of the country, demand for natural gas and other fuels peaks during the winter. As a result, our overall operating results in the future might fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. Demand for natural gas and other fuels could vary significantly from our expectations depending on the nature and location of our facilities and pipeline systems and the terms of our natural gas transportation arrangements relative to demand created by unusual weather patterns. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, which could disrupt our operations. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities have been constructed. As such, we are subject to the possibility of increased costs to retain necessary land use. In those instances in which we do not own the land on which our facilities are located, we obtain the rights to construct and operate our facilities and gathering systems on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. In addition, some of our facilities cross Native American lands pursuant to rights-of-way of limited terms. We may not have the right of eminent domain over land owned by Native American tribes. Our loss of any of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our business could be negatively impacted as a result of stockholder activism. In recent years, stockholder activism, including threatened or actual proxy contests, has been directed against numerous public companies, including ours. We were the target of a proxy contest from a stockholder activist, which resulted in our incurring significant costs. If stockholder activists were to again take or threaten to take 31 actions against the Company or seek to involve themselves in the governance, strategic direction or operations of the Company, we could incur significant costs as well as the distraction of management, which could have an adverse effect on our business or financial results. In addition, actions of activist stockholders may cause significant fluctuations in our stock price based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business. Our costs and funding obligations for our defined benefit pension plans and costs for our other postretirement benefit plans are affected by factors beyond our control. We have defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans. The timing and amount of our funding requirements under the defined benefit pension plans depend upon a number of factors that we control, including changes to pension plan benefits, as well as factors outside of our control, such as asset returns, interest rates, and changes in pension laws. Changes to these and other factors that can significantly increase our funding requirements could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Financing Our Business A downgrade of our credit ratings, which are determined outside of our control by independent third parties, could impact our liquidity, access to capital, and our costs of doing business. Downgrades of our credit ratings increase our cost of borrowing and could require us to provide collateral to our counterparties, negatively impacting our available liquidity. In addition, our ability to access capital markets could be limited by the downgrading of our credit ratings. Credit rating agencies perform independent analysis when assigning credit ratings. The analysis includes a number of criteria such as, business composition, market and operational risks, as well as various financial tests. Credit rating agencies continue to review the criteria for industry sectors and various debt ratings and may make changes to those criteria from time to time. Credit ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the ratings agencies. As of the date of the filing of this report, we have been assigned an investment-grade credit rating by the credit ratings agencies. Difficult conditions in the global financial markets and the economy in general could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Our businesses may be negatively impacted by adverse economic conditions or future disruptions in the global financial markets. Included among these potential negative impacts are industrial or economic contraction (including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic) leading to reduced energy demand and lower prices for our products and services and increased difficulty in collecting amounts owed to us by our customers. If financing is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to implement our business plans or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. In addition, financial markets have periodically been affected by concerns over U.S. fiscal and monetary policies. These concerns, as well as actions taken by the U.S. federal government in response to these concerns, could significantly and adversely impact the global and U.S. economies and financial markets, which could negatively impact us in the manner described above. Restrictions in our debt agreements and the amount of our indebtedness may affect our future financial and operating flexibility. Our total outstanding long-term debt (including current portion) as of December 31, 2020, was $22.3 billion. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain covenants that restrict our and our material subsidiaries’ ability to incur certain liens to support indebtedness and our ability to merge or consolidate or sell all or substantially all of our assets in certain circumstances. In addition, certain of our debt agreements contain various covenants that restrict or limit, among other things, our ability to make certain distributions during the continuation of an event of default, the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional debt, and our, and our material subsidiaries’, ability to enter into certain affiliate transactions and certain restrictive agreements. Certain of our debt agreements also contain, and those we enter into in the future may contain, financial covenants, and other limitations with which we will need to comply. 32 Our debt service obligations and the covenants described above could have important consequences. For example, they could: • Make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, which could in turn result in an event of default on such indebtedness; • Impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes, or other purposes; • Diminish our ability to withstand a continued or future downturn in our business or the economy generally; • Require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, the payments of dividends, general corporate purposes, or other purposes; • Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, including limiting our ability to expand or pursue our business activities and preventing us from engaging in certain transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us. Our ability to comply with our debt covenants, to repay, extend, or refinance our existing debt obligations and to obtain future credit will depend primarily on our operating performance. Our ability to refinance existing debt obligations or obtain future credit will also depend upon the current conditions in the credit markets and the availability of credit generally. If we are unable to comply with these covenants, meet our debt service obligations, or obtain future credit on favorable terms, or at all, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. We may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our failure to comply with the covenants in the documents governing our indebtedness could result in events of default, which could render such indebtedness due and payable. We may not have sufficient liquidity to repay our indebtedness in such circumstances. In addition, cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions in our debt agreements could cause a default or acceleration to have a wider impact on our liquidity than might otherwise arise from a default or acceleration of a single debt instrument. For more information regarding our debt agreements, please read Note 14 – Debt and Banking Arrangements of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Changes to interest rates or increases in interest rates could adversely impact our access to credit, share price, our ability to issue securities or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes, and our ability to make cash dividends at our intended levels. Interest rates may increase in the future. As a result, interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, our share price will be impacted by the level of our dividends and implied dividend yield. The dividend yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our shares, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our share price and our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and to pay cash dividends at our intended levels. Our hedging activities might not be effective and could increase the volatility of our results. In an effort to manage our financial exposure related to commodity price and market fluctuations, we have entered, and may in the future enter into contracts to hedge certain risks associated with our assets and operations. In these hedging activities, we have used, and may in the future use, fixed-price, forward, physical purchase, and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and option contracts traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. Nevertheless, no single hedging arrangement can adequately address all risks present in a given contract. For example, a forward contract that would be effective in hedging commodity price volatility risks would not hedge the contract’s counterparty credit or performance risk. Therefore, unhedged risks will always continue to exist. While we attempt to manage counterparty credit risk within guidelines established by our credit policy, we may not be able to successfully manage all credit risk and as such, future cash flows and results of operations could be impacted by counterparty default. 33 Our and our customers’ access to capital could be affected by financial institutions’ policies concerning fossil- fuel related businesses . Public concern regarding the potential effects of climate change have directed increased attention towards the funding sources of fossil-fuel energy companies. As a result, certain financial institutions, funds, and other sources of capital have restricted or eliminated their investment in certain market segments of fossil-fuel related energy.  Ultimately, limiting fossil-fuel related companies’ access to capital could make it more difficult for our customers to secure funding for exploration and production activities or for us to secure funding for growth projects.  Such a lack of capital could also both indirectly affect demand for our services and directly affect our ability to fund construction or other capital projects. Risks Related to Regulations The operation of our businesses might be adversely affected by regulatory proceedings, changes in government regulations or in their interpretation or implementation, or the introduction of new laws or regulations applicable to our businesses or our customers. Public and regulatory scrutiny of the energy industry has resulted in the proposal and/or implementation of increased regulations. Such scrutiny has also resulted in various inquiries, investigations, and court proceedings, including litigation of energy industry matters. Both the shippers on our pipelines and regulators have rights to challenge the rates we charge under certain circumstances. Any successful challenge could materially affect our results of operations. Certain inquiries, investigations, and court proceedings are ongoing. Adverse effects may continue as a result of the uncertainty of ongoing inquiries, investigations, and court proceedings, or additional inquiries and proceedings by federal or state regulatory agencies or private plaintiffs. In addition, we cannot predict the outcome of any of these inquiries or whether these inquiries will lead to additional legal proceedings against us, civil or criminal fines and/or penalties, or other regulatory action, including legislation, which might be materially adverse to the operation of our business and our results of operations or increase our operating costs in other ways. Current legal proceedings or other matters, including environmental matters, suits, regulatory appeals, and similar matters might result in adverse decisions against us which, among other outcomes, could result in the imposition of substantial penalties and fines and could damage our reputation. The result of such adverse decisions, either individually or in the aggregate, could be material and may not be covered fully or at all by insurance. In addition, existing regulations, including those pertaining to financial assurances to be provided by our businesses in respect of potential asset decommissioning and abandonment activities, might be revised, reinterpreted, or otherwise enforced in a manner that differs from prior regulatory action. New laws and regulations, including those pertaining to oil and gas hedging and cash collateral requirements, might also be adopted or become applicable to us, our customers, or our business activities. The change in the U.S. governmental administration and its policies may increase the likelihood of such legal and regulatory developments. If new laws or regulations are imposed relating to oil and gas extraction, or if additional or revised levels of reporting, regulation, or permitting moratoria are required or imposed, including those related to hydraulic fracturing, the volumes of natural gas and other products that we transport, gather, process, and treat could decline, our compliance costs could increase, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. The natural gas sales, transportation, and storage operations of our gas pipelines are subject to regulation by the FERC, which could have an adverse impact on their ability to establish transportation and storage rates that would allow them to recover the full cost of operating their respective pipelines and storage assets, including a reasonable rate of return. In addition to regulation by other federal, state, and local regulatory authorities, interstate pipeline transportation and storage service is subject to regulation by the FERC. Federal regulation extends to such matters as: • Transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce; • Rates, operating terms, types of services, and conditions of service; • Certification and construction of new interstate pipelines and storage facilities; 34 • Acquisition, extension, disposition, or abandonment of existing interstate pipelines and storage facilities; • Accounts and records; • Depreciation and amortization policies; • Relationships with affiliated companies that are involved in marketing functions of the natural gas business; • Market manipulation in connection with interstate sales, purchases, or transportation of natural gas. Regulatory or administrative actions in these areas, including successful complaints or protests against the rates of the gas pipelines, can affect our business in many ways, including decreasing tariff rates and revenues, decreasing volumes in our pipelines, increasing our costs, and otherwise altering the profitability of our pipeline business. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations, including laws and regulations relating to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, which may expose us to significant costs, liabilities, and expenditures that could exceed our expectations. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state, tribal, and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection, endangered and threatened species, the discharge of materials into the environment, and the security of chemical and industrial facilities. Substantial costs, liabilities, delays, and other significant issues related to environmental laws and regulations are inherent in the gathering, transportation, storage, processing, and treating of natural gas, fractionation, transportation, and storage of NGLs, and crude oil transportation and production handling as well as waste disposal practices and construction activities. New or amended environmental laws and regulations can also result in significant increases in capital costs we incur to comply with such laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations, and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and/or criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, the imposition of stricter conditions on or revocation of permits, the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations, and delays or denials in granting permits. Joint and several strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations, for the remediation of contaminated areas and in connection with spills or releases of materials associated with natural gas, oil, and wastes on, under or from our properties and facilities. Private parties, including the owners of properties through which our pipeline and gathering systems pass and facilities where our wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage arising from our operations. Some sites at which we operate are located near current or former third-party hydrocarbon storage and processing or oil and natural gas operations or facilities, and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to ours. We are generally responsible for all liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our facilities and assets, whether acquired or developed, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. In connection with certain acquisitions and divestitures, we could acquire, or be required to provide indemnification against, environmental liabilities that could expose us to material losses, which may not be covered by insurance. In addition, the steps we could be required to take to bring certain facilities into compliance could be prohibitively expensive, and we might be required to shut down, divest or alter the operation of those facilities, which might cause us to incur losses. In addition, climate change regulations and the costs that may be associated with such regulations and with the regulation of emissions of GHGs have the potential to affect our business. Regulatory actions by the Environmental Protection Agency or the passage of new climate change laws or regulations could result in increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities, install new emission controls on our facilities, or administer and manage any GHG emissions program.  We believe it is possible that future governmental legislation and/or regulation may require us either to limit GHG emissions associated with our operations or to purchase allowances for such emissions. We could also be subjected to a carbon tax assessed on the basis of carbon dioxide emissions or otherwise. However, we cannot predict precisely what form these future regulations might take, the stringency of any such regulations or when they might become effective. Several legislative bills have been introduced in the United States Congress that would require carbon dioxide emission reductions. Previously considered proposals have included, among other things, limitations on the amount of GHGs that can be emitted (so called “caps”) 35 together with systems of permitted emissions allowances. These proposals could require us to reduce emissions or to purchase allowances for such emissions. In addition to activities on the federal level, state and regional initiatives could also lead to the regulation of GHG emissions sooner than and/or independent of federal regulation. These regulations could be more stringent than any federal legislation that may be adopted. Future legislation and/or regulation designed to reduce GHG emissions could make some of our activities uneconomic to maintain or operate.  We continue to monitor legislative and regulatory developments in this area and otherwise take efforts to limit and reduce GHG emissions from our facilities. Although the regulation of GHG emissions may have a material impact on our operations and rates, we believe it is premature to attempt to quantify the potential costs of the impacts. If we are unable to recover or pass through a significant level of our costs related to complying with climate change regulatory requirements imposed on us, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. General Risk Factors We do not insure against all potential risks and losses and could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities or by the inability of our insurers to satisfy our claims. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, risks and losses, and only at levels we believe to be appropriate. The occurrence of any risks not fully covered by our insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and our ability to repay our debt. Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could negatively impact our results of operations. Events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, mismatch of skill sets to future needs, the challenges of attracting new, qualified workers to the midstream energy industry, or unavailability of contract labor may lead to operating challenges such as lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development, including with the workforce needs associated with projects and ongoing operations. Failure to hire and adequately obtain replacement employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect our ability to manage and operate the businesses. If we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, results of operations could be negatively impacted. Holders of our common stock may not receive dividends in the amount expected or any dividends. We may not have sufficient cash each quarter to pay dividends or maintain current or expected levels of dividends. The actual amount of cash we dividend may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and will depend on various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • The amount of cash that our subsidiaries distribute to us; • The amount of cash we generate from our operations, our working capital needs, our level of capital expenditures, and our ability to borrow; • The restrictions contained in our indentures and credit facility and our debt service requirements; • The cost of acquisitions, if any. A failure either to pay dividends or to pay dividends at expected levels could result in a loss of investor confidence, reputational damage, and a decrease in the value of our stock price.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

General We are an energy infrastructure company focused on connecting North America’s significant hydrocarbon resource plays to growing markets for natural gas and NGLs through our gas pipeline and midstream business. Our operations are located in the United States. Our interstate natural gas pipeline strategy is to create value by maximizing the utilization of our pipeline capacity by providing high quality, low cost transportation of natural gas to large and growing markets. Our gas pipeline businesses’ interstate transmission and storage activities are subject to regulation by the FERC and as such, our rates and charges for the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce, and the extension, expansion or abandonment of jurisdictional facilities and accounting, among other things, are subject to regulation. Rates are established in accordance with the FERC’s ratemaking process. Changes in commodity prices and volumes transported have limited near-term impact on these revenues because the majority of cost of service is recovered through firm capacity reservation charges in transportation rates. The ongoing strategy of our midstream operations is to safely and reliably operate large-scale midstream infrastructure where our assets can be fully utilized and drive low per-unit costs. We focus on consistently attracting new business by providing highly reliable service to our customers. These services include natural gas gathering, processing, treating, and compression, NGL fractionation and transportation, crude oil production handling and transportation, marketing services for NGL, crude oil and natural gas, as well as storage facilities. Consistent with the manner in which our chief operating decision maker evaluates performance and allocates resources, our operations are conducted, managed, and presented within the following reportable segments: Transmission & Gulf of Mexico, Northeast G&P, and West. All remaining business activities as well as corporate activities are included in Other. Our reportable segments are comprised of the following businesses: • Transmission & Gulf of Mexico is comprised of our interstate natural gas pipelines, Transco and Northwest Pipeline, as well as natural gas gathering and processing and crude oil production handling and transportation assets in the Gulf Coast region, including a 51 percent interest in Gulfstar One (a consolidated variable interest entity), which is a proprietary floating production system, a 50 percent equity-method investment in Gulfstream, and a 60 percent equity-method investment in Discovery. • Northeast G&P is comprised of our midstream gathering, processing, and fractionation businesses in the Marcellus Shale region primarily in Pennsylvania and New York, and the Utica Shale region of eastern Ohio, as well as a 65 percent interest in our Northeast JV (a consolidated variable interest entity) which operates in West Virginia, Ohio, and Pennsylvania, a 66 percent interest in Cardinal (a consolidated variable interest entity) which operates in Ohio, a 69 percent equity-method investment in Laurel Mountain, a 99 percent interest in Caiman II (a former equity-method investment which is a consolidated entity following our November 2020 acquisition of an additional ownership interest) which owns a 50 percent equity-method investment in Blue Racer, and Appalachia Midstream Investments, a wholly owned subsidiary that owns equity-method investments with an approximate average 66 percent interest in multiple gas gathering systems in the Marcellus Shale region. • West is comprised of our gas gathering, processing, and treating operations in the Rocky Mountain region of Colorado and Wyoming, the Barnett Shale region of north-central Texas, the Eagle Ford Shale region of south Texas, the Haynesville Shale region of northwest Louisiana, and the Mid-Continent region which includes the Anadarko, Arkoma, and Permian basins. This segment also includes our NGL and natural gas marketing business, storage facilities, an undivided 50 percent interest in an NGL fractionator near Conway, Kansas, a 50 percent equity-method investment in OPPL, a 50 percent equity-method investment in RMM, a 20 percent equity-method investment in Targa Train 7, and a 15 percent interest in Brazos Permian II, LLC (Brazos Permian II). • Other includes certain previously owned operations, minor business activities that are not reportable segments, as well as corporate operations. 41 Unless indicated otherwise, the following discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition and liquidity relates to our current continuing operations and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Part II, Item 8 of this report. Dividends In December 2020, we paid a regular quarterly dividend of $0.40 per share. On January 26, 2021, our board of directors approved a regular quarterly dividend of $0.41 per share payable on March 29, 2021. Overview Net income (loss) attributable to The Williams Companies, Inc. , for the year ended December 31, 2020, decreased $639 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, reflecting: • An $860 million increase in Impairment of equity-method investments ; • A $187 million Impairment of goodwill in 2020; • A $123 million unfavorable change in Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests primarily driven by a reduced share of certain impairment charges attributable to noncontrolling interests; • The absence of a $122 million gain recognized on the sale of our interest in an equity-method investment in 2019; • A $76 million unfavorable change in Other income (expense) – net. These unfavorable changes were partially offset by: • A $282 million decrease in Impairment of certain assets ; • A $234 million favorable change in Operating and maintenance expenses and Selling, general, and administrative expenses , driven by lower employee-related expenses, including the absence of 2019 severance and related costs and the associated reduced costs in 2020 as well as the benefit of a change in an employee benefit policy; • A $256 million favorable change in Provision (benefit) for income taxes. Acquisition of Caiman II (Blue Racer) As of December 31, 2019, we effectively owned a 29 percent indirect interest in Blue Racer through our 58 percent interest in Caiman II, whose primary asset is a 50 percent interest in Blue Racer. On November 18, 2020, we paid $157 million, net of cash acquired, to acquire an additional 41 percent ownership interest in Caiman II. We now control and consolidate Caiman II, reporting the 50 percent interest in Blue Racer as an equity-method investment. Expansion Project Updates Significant expansion project updates for the period, including projects placed into service are described below. Ongoing major expansion projects are discussed later in Company Outlook. Transmission & Gulf of Mexico Hillabee In February 2016, the FERC issued a certificate order for the initial phases of Transco’s Hillabee Expansion Project. The project involves an expansion of Transco’s existing natural gas transmission system from Station 85 in west central Alabama to an interconnection with the Sabal Trail pipeline in east central Alabama. The project is being constructed in phases, and all of the project expansion capacity is dedicated to Sabal Trail pursuant to a capacity lease agreement. Phase I was completed in 2017 and it increased capacity by 42 818 Mdth/d. We placed Phase II into service on May 1, 2020. Together, the first two phases of the project increased capacity by 1,025 Mdth/d. Southeastern Trail In October 2019, we received approval from the FERC to expand Transco’s existing natural gas transmission system to provide incremental firm transportation capacity from the Pleasant Valley interconnect with Dominion’s Cove Point Pipeline in Virginia to the Station 65 pooling point in Louisiana. We placed 230 Mdth/d of capacity under the project into service in the fourth quarter of 2020, and the project was fully in service on January 1, 2021. In total, the project increased capacity by 296 Mdth/d. West Project Bluestem We expanded our presence in the Mid-Continent region through building a 189-mile NGL pipeline from our fractionator and NGL storage facilities near Conway, Kansas, to an interconnection with a third-party NGL pipeline system in Oklahoma, providing us with firm access to Mt. Belvieu pricing. As part of the project, the third party constructed a 110-mile pipeline extension of its existing NGL pipeline system that will have an initial capacity of 120 Mbbls/d. The pipeline and extension projects were placed into service on December 1, 2020. Further, during the first quarter of 2019, we exercised an option to purchase a 20 percent equity interest in Targa Train 7, a Mt. Belvieu fractionation train developed by the third party, which was placed into service in the first quarter of 2020. COVID-19 The outbreak of COVID-19 has severely impacted global economic activity and caused significant volatility and negative pressure in financial markets. We are monitoring the COVID-19 pandemic and have taken steps intended to protect the safety of our customers, employees, and communities, and to support the continued delivery of safe and reliable service to our customers and the communities we serve. We are continuing to monitor developments with respect to the outbreak and note the following: • Our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity have not been materially impacted by direct effects of COVID-19. • We believe we have the ability to access the debt market, if necessary, as evidenced by the successful completion of debt offerings during second-quarter 2020, and continue to have significant levels of unused capacity on our revolving credit facility. • We continue to monitor and adapt our remote working arrangements and limit business-related travel. Implementation of these measures has not required material expenditures or significantly impacted our ability to operate our business. • Our remote working arrangements have not significantly impacted our internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Customer Bankruptcy In June 2020, our customer, Chesapeake Energy Corporation (Chesapeake), announced that it had voluntarily filed for relief under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. We provide midstream services, including wellhead gathering, for the natural gas that Chesapeake and its joint interest owners produce, primarily in the Eagle Ford Shale, Haynesville Shale, and Marcellus Shale regions (through Appalachia Midstream Investments). In November 2020, we reached a global resolution with Chesapeake as part of Chesapeake’s restructuring process.  The resolution was approved by the bankruptcy court in December 2020 and per the terms, Chesapeake paid all outstanding pre-petition amounts due to us. Additional terms include reduced gathering fees in the Haynesville Shale region, continuation of the gathering agreements in the Eagle Ford Shale and Marcellus Shale 43 regions, a long-term gas supply commitment for Transco’s Regional Energy Access pipeline currently under development, and transferring certain natural gas properties in Louisiana to us. Company Outlook Our strategy is to provide large-scale energy infrastructure designed to maximize the opportunities created by the vast supply of natural gas and natural gas products that exists in the United States. We accomplish this by connecting the growing demand for cleaner fuels and feedstocks with our major positions in the premier natural gas and natural gas products supply basins. We continue to maintain a strong commitment to safety, environmental stewardship, operational excellence, and customer satisfaction. We believe that accomplishing these goals will position us to deliver safe and reliable service to our customers and an attractive return to our shareholders. Our business plan for 2021 includes a continued focus on earnings and cash flow growth, while continuing to improve leverage metrics and control operating costs. The credit profiles of certain of our producer customers continue to be challenged, including some that have filed for bankruptcy protection. However, we note that the physical nature of services we provide supports the success of these customers. In many cases, we have long-term acreage dedications with strong historical contractual conveyances that create real estate interests in unproduced gas. Our gathering lines in many cases are physically connected to the customers’ wellheads and pads, and there may not be alternative gathering lines nearby. The construction of gathering systems is capital intensive and it would be costly for others to replicate, especially considering the depletion to date of the associated reserves. As a result, we play a critical role in getting customers’ production from the wellhead to a marketable condition and location. This tends to reduce collectability risk as our services enable producers to generate operating cash flows. In 2021, our operating results are expected to benefit from growth in our Northeast G&P gathering and processing volumes. We also anticipate increases from Transco expansion projects and higher Gulf of Mexico results primarily due to lower anticipated hurricane impacts. These increases will be partially offset by a decrease in West results, including a reduction in NGL transportation volumes on OPPL and certain fee reductions in the Haynesville area in exchange for upstream value in natural gas properties. We also expect a modest increase in expenses, including higher operating taxes. Our growth capital and investment expenditures in 2021 are expected to be in a range from $1.0 billion to $1.2 billion. Growth capital spending in 2021 primarily includes Transco expansions, all of which are fully contracted with firm transportation agreements, and projects supporting the Northeast G&P business and opportunities in the Haynesville area. In addition to growth capital and investment expenditures, we also remain committed to projects that maintain our assets for safe and reliable operations, as well as projects that meet legal, regulatory, and/or contractual commitments. Potential risks and obstacles that could impact the execution of our plan include: • Continued negative impacts of COVID-19 driving a global recession, which could result in further downturns in financial markets and commodity prices, as well as impact demand for natural gas and related products; • Opposition to, and legal regulations affecting, our infrastructure projects, including the risk of delay or denial in permits and approvals needed for our projects; • Counterparty credit and performance risk, including unexpected developments in customer bankruptcy proceedings; • Unexpected significant increases in capital expenditures or delays in capital project execution; • Unexpected changes in customer drilling and production activities, which could negatively impact gathering and processing volumes; • Lower than anticipated demand for natural gas and natural gas products which could result in lower than expected volumes, energy commodity prices, and margins; 44 • General economic, financial markets, or further industry downturns, including increased interest rates; • Physical damages to facilities, including damage to offshore facilities by weather-related events; • Other risks set forth under Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors in this report. We seek to maintain a strong financial position and liquidity, as well as manage a diversified portfolio of energy infrastructure assets that continue to serve key growth markets and supply basins in the United States. Expansion Projects Our ongoing major expansion projects include the following: Transmission & Gulf of Mexico Northeast Supply Enhancement In May 2019, we received approval from the FERC to expand Transco’s existing natural gas transmission system to provide incremental firm transportation capacity from Station 195 in Pennsylvania to the Rockaway Delivery Lateral transfer point in New York. However, approvals required for the project from the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation and the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection were denied in May 2020. We have not refiled our applications for those approvals. Considering that the customer precedent agreements and FERC certificate for the project remain in effect, we had previously concluded that the probability of completing the project was sufficient to not require impairment. However, recent developments in the political and regulatory environments have caused us to slightly lower that assessed probability such that the capitalized project costs now require impairment.  See further discussion in Critical Accounting Estimates. Leidy South In July 2020, we received approval from the FERC for the project to expand Transco’s existing natural gas transmission system and also extend its system through a capacity lease with National Fuel Gas Supply Corporation that will enable us to provide incremental firm transportation from Clermont, Pennsylvania and from the Zick interconnection on Transco’s Leidy Line to the River Road regulating station in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania. We placed 125 Mdth/d of capacity under the project into service in the fourth quarter of 2020, and we plan to place the remainder of the project into service as early as the fourth quarter of 2021, assuming timely receipt of all necessary regulatory approvals. The project is expected to increase capacity by 582 Mdth/d. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions.  We believe that the nature of these estimates and assumptions is material due to the subjectivity and judgment necessary, or the susceptibility of such matters to change, and the impact of these on our financial condition or results of operations. Pension and Postretirement Obligations We have employee benefit plans that include pension and other postretirement benefits. Net periodic benefit cost and obligations for these plans are impacted by various estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, cash balance interest crediting rate, and employee demographics, including retirement age and mortality. These assumptions are reviewed annually and adjustments are made as needed. The assumptions utilized to compute cost and the benefit obligations are shown in Note 10 – Employee Benefit Plans of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 45 The following table presents the estimated increase (decrease) in net periodic benefit cost and obligations resulting from a one-percentage-point change in the specific assumption. Our expected long-term rates of return on plan assets, as determined at the beginning of each fiscal year, are based on the average rate of return expected on the funds invested in the plans. We determine our long-term expected rates of return on plan assets using our expectations of capital market results, which include an analysis of historical results as well as forward-looking projections. These capital market expectations are based on a period of at least 10 years and take into account our investment strategy and mix of assets. We develop our expectations using input from our third-party independent investment consultant. The forward-looking capital market projections start with current conditions of interest rates, equity pricing, economic growth, and inflation and those are overlaid with forward looking projections of normal inflation, growth, and interest rates to determine expected returns. The capital market return projections for specific asset classes in the investment portfolio are then applied to the relative weightings of the asset classes in the investment portfolio. The resulting rates are an estimate of future results and, thus, likely to be different than actual results. Our expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used for our pension plans was 4.67 percent in 2020. The 2020 actual return on plan assets for our pension plans was approximately 17.9 percent. The 10-year average rate of return on pension plan assets through December 2020 was approximately 8.6 percent. The expected rates of return on plan assets are long-term in nature and are not significantly impacted by short-term market performance. Changes to our asset allocation also impact the expected rates of return. The discount rates are used to measure the benefit obligations of our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The objective of the discount rates is to determine the amount, if invested at the December 31 measurement date in a portfolio of high-quality debt securities, that will provide the necessary cash flows when benefit payments are due. Increases in the discount rates decrease the obligation and, generally, decrease the related cost. The discount rates for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans are determined separately based on an approach specific to our plans and their respective expected benefit cash flows as described in Note 1 – General, Description of Business, Basis of Presentation, and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 10 – Employee Benefit Plans of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our discount rate assumptions are impacted by changes in general economic and market conditions that affect interest rates on long-term, high-quality debt securities as well as by the duration of our plans’ liabilities. The cash balance interest crediting rate assumption represents the average long-term rate by which the pension plans’ cash balance accounts are expected to grow. Interest on the cash balance accounts is based on the 30-year U.S. Treasury securities rate and is credited to the accounts quarterly. An increase in this rate causes the pension obligation and cost to increase. Equity-Method Investments We monitor our equity-method investments for any indications that the carrying value may have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in value. 46 In the first quarter of 2020, we observed a significant decline in the publicly traded price of our common stock (NYSE: WMB) as well as other industry peers and increases in equity yields within the midstream and overall energy industry, which served to increase our estimates of discount rates and weighted-average cost of capital. These changes were attributed to the swift, world-wide economic declines associated with actions to address the spread of COVID-19, coupled with the energy industry impact of significantly reduced energy commodity prices, which were further impacted by crude oil price declines associated with geopolitical actions during the quarter. These significant macroeconomic changes served as indications that the carrying amount of certain of our equity-method investments may have experienced an other-than temporary decline in fair value, determined in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 323, “Investments - Equity Method and Joint Ventures.” As a result, we estimated the fair value of these equity-method investments in accordance with ASC Topic 820, “Fair Value Measurement,” as of the March 31, 2020, measurement date . In assessing the fair value, we were required to consider recent publicly available indications of value, which included lower observed publicly traded EBITDA market multiples as compared with recent history, and significantly higher industry weighted-average discount rates. As a result, we determined that there were other-than-temporary declines in the fair value of certain of our equity-method investments, resulting in recognized impairments during the first quarter of 2020 totaling $938 million. (See Note 18 – Fair Value Measurements, Guarantees, and Concentration of Credit Risk of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) This included impairments of certain of our equity-method investments in our Northeast G&P segment totaling $405 million, primarily associated with operations in wet-gas areas where producer drilling activities are influenced by NGL prices, which historically trend with crude oil prices. This total was primarily comprised of impairments of our investment in Caiman II and predominantly wet-gas gathering systems that are part of Appalachia Midstream Investments. We also recognized an impairment of $97 million related to Discovery within the Transmission & Gulf of Mexico segment. We estimated the fair value of these investments as of the March 31, 2020, measurement date utilizing income and market approaches, which were impacted by assumptions reflecting the significant recent market declines previously discussed, such as higher discount rates, ranging from 9.7 percent to 13.5 percent, and lower EBITDA multiples ranging from 5.0x to 6.2x. We also considered any debt held at the investee level, and its impact to fair value. At that time we estimated that a one percentage point increase or decrease in the discount rates used would increase these recognized impairments by approximately $197 million or decrease the level of these recognized impairments by approximately $121 million and a 0.5x increase or decrease in the EBITDA multiples assumed would decrease or increase the level of impairments recognized by approximately $48 million. During the first quarter of 2020 we also recognized $436 million of impairments within our West segment related to our investments in RMM and Brazos Permian II, measured using an income approach. Both investees operate in primarily crude oil-driven basins where our gathering volumes are driven by crude oil drilling. Our expectation of continued lower crude oil prices and related expectation of significant reductions in current and future producer activities in these areas led to reduced estimates of expected future cash flows. Our fair value estimates also reflected increases in the discount rates to approximately 17 percent for these investments. We also considered any debt held at the investee level, and its impact to fair value. At that time we estimated that a one percentage point increase in the discount rate would increase these recognized impairments by approximately $32 million, while a one percentage point decrease would decrease these impairments by approximately $43 million. During the fourth quarter of 2020, RMM renegotiated service contracts with a significant customer in connection with the customer’s Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings. The renegotiated contracts result in lower service rates, and lower projected future cash flows. As a result, we recognized an additional $108 million impairment of our investment in RMM, measured using an income approach. Our estimate of fair value reflects a discount rate of 18 percent. We estimate that a one percentage point increase in the discount rate would increase the recognized impairment by approximately $24 million, while a one percentage point decrease would decrease these impairments by approximately $26 million. Judgments and assumptions are inherent in our estimates of future cash flows, discount rates, and market measures utilized. The use of alternate judgments and assumptions could result in a different calculation of fair value, which could ultimately result in the recognition of a different impairment charge in the consolidated financial statements, potentially including impairments for investments that were evaluated but for which no impairments were recognized. 47 Property, Plant, and Equipment and Other Identifiable Intangible Assets As a result of the previously described significant macroeconomic changes during the first quarter of 2020, we also evaluated certain of our property, plant, and equipment and other identifiable intangible assets for indicators of impairment as of March 31, 2020. In our assessments, we considered the impact of the then current market conditions on certain of our assets and did not identify any indicators that the carrying amounts of those assets may not be recoverable. The use of alternate judgments or changes in future conditions could result in a different conclusion regarding the occurrence and measurement of impairments affecting the consolidated financial statements. We also evaluated $212 million of capitalized project development costs for the Northeast Supply Enhancement project for impairment as of December 31, 2020. As previously discussed, approvals required for the project from the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation and the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection have been denied and we have not refiled at this time. Beginning in May 2020, we discontinued capitalization of costs related to this project. Considering that the customer precedent agreements and FERC certificate for the project remain in effect, we had previously concluded that the probability of completing the project was sufficient to not require impairment. However, recent developments in the political and regulatory environments have caused us to slightly lower that assessed probability such that the capitalized project costs now require impairment. The estimated fair value of the materials within capitalized project costs was determined to be $42 million and considered other internal uses and estimated salvage values. The remaining capitalized costs were determined to have no fair value. As a result, we recognized an impairment charge of $170 million within our Transmission & Gulf of Mexico segment during the fourth quarter of 2020. Our assumption regarding the probability of completing the project is subjective and required management to exercise significant judgment. The use of an alternate judgment could have resulted in a different conclusion regarding the need to evaluate the project for impairment. 48 Results of Operations Consolidated Overview The following table and discussion is a summary of our consolidated results of operations for the three years ended December 31, 2020. The results of operations by segment are discussed in further detail following this consolidated overview discussion. _______ *    + = Favorable change; - = Unfavorable change; NM = A percentage calculation is not meaningful due to a change in signs, a zero-value denominator, or a percentage change greater than 200. 49 2020 vs. 2019 Service revenues decreased primarily due to lower volumes in our West segment, lower deferred revenue amortization at Gulfstar One, the expiration of an MVC agreement in the Barnett Shale region, and temporary shut-ins at certain offshore Gulf of Mexico operations. This decrease was partially offset by higher Northeast G&P revenues driven by higher volumes and the March 2019 consolidation of UEOM (see Note 3 – Acquisitions and Divestitures of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), higher MVC revenue in our West segment, as well as higher transportation fee revenues at Transco and Northwest Pipeline associated with expansion projects placed in service in 2019 and 2020, increased volumes in the Eastern Gulf region, and higher deficiency fee revenue associated with lower volumes at OPPL. Service revenues – commodity consideration decreased due to lower commodity prices, as well as lower equity NGL processing volumes due to less producer drilling activity. These revenues represent consideration we receive in the form of commodities as full or partial payment for processing services provided. Most of these NGL volumes are sold within the month processed and therefore are offset within Product costs below. Product sales decreased primarily due to lower NGL and natural gas prices associated with our marketing and equity NGL sales activities, as well as lower volumes associated with our equity NGL sales activities, partially offset by higher marketing volumes. This decrease also includes lower system management gas sales. Marketing sales and system management gas sales are substantially offset within Product costs . Product costs decreased primarily due to lower NGL and natural gas prices associated with our marketing and equity NGL production activities. This decrease also includes lower volumes acquired as commodity consideration for NGL processing services and lower system management gas purchases, partially offset by higher volumes for marketing activities. Processing commodity expenses decreased primarily due to lower natural gas purchases associated with equity NGL production primarily due to lower natural gas prices and lower volumes . Operating and maintenance expenses decreased primarily due to lower employee-related expenses, including the absence of 2019 severance and related costs and the associated reduced costs in 2020, as well as the favorable impact of a change in an employee benefit policy (see Note 6 – Other Income and Expenses of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), and lower maintenance and operating costs primarily due to timing and scope of activities. These decreases are partially offset by higher expenses related to the consolidation of UEOM. Depreciation and amortization expenses increased primarily due to new assets placed in service and the March 2019 consolidation of UEOM, partially offset by lower expense related to assets that became fully depreciated in the fourth quarter of 2019. Selling, general, and administrative expenses decreased primarily due to lower employee-related expenses, including the absence of 2019 severance and related costs and the associated reduced costs in 2020, as well as the favorable impact of a change in an employee benefit policy (see Note 6 – Other Income and Expenses of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), and the absence of transaction costs associated with our 2019 acquisition of UEOM and the formation of the Northeast JV. Impairment of certain assets includes the 2019 impairments of our Constitution development project, certain Eagle Ford Shale gathering assets, and certain idle gathering assets. The asset impairments in 2020 included our Northeast Supply Enhancement development project and certain gathering assets in the Marcellus Shale region (see Note 18 – Fair Value Measurements, Guarantees, and Concentration of Credit Risk of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Impairment of goodwill reflects the goodwill impairment charge at the Northeast reporting unit in 2020 (see Note 18 – Fair Value Measurements, Guarantees, and Concentration of Credit Risk of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). 50 Equity earnings (losses) changed unfavorably primarily due to our share of 2020 impairments at equity-method investments (see Note 7 – Investing Activities of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), and lower volumes at OPPL and Discovery. These decreases were partially offset by favorable amortization of basis differences related to impairments of several of our equity-method investments which were recognized in first quarter 2020, as well as higher volumes at Appalachia Midstream Investments, increased results at Blue Racer/Caiman II driven by higher volumes and a higher ownership interest, and the absence of 2019 losses at Brazos Permian II. Impairment of equity-method investments includes impairments of various equity-method investments in 2020 and 2019 (see Note 18 – Fair Value Measurements, Guarantees, and Concentration of Credit Risk of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The unfavorable change in Other investing income (loss) – net is primarily due to the absence of a 2019 gain on the sale of our equity-method investment in Jackalope, partially offset by the absence of a 2019 loss on the deconsolidation of Constitution (see Note 7 – Investing Activities of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The unfavorable change in Other income (expense) – net below Operating income (loss) includes a charge in the fourth quarter 2020 for a legal settlement associated with former olefins operations, lower equity allowance for funds used during construction (AFUDC), and 2020 write-offs of certain regulatory assets related to cancelled projects. Provision (benefit) for income taxes changed favorably primarily due to lower pre-tax income. See Note 8 – Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the effective tax rate compared to the federal statutory rate for both periods. The unfavorable change in Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests is primarily due to the absence of the 2019 impairment of our Constitution development project and the impact from the formation of the Northeast JV in June 2019, partially offset by the first-quarter 2020 goodwill impairment charge at the Northeast reporting unit, and lower Gulfstar One results. 2019 vs. 2018 Service revenues increased primarily due to higher transportation fee revenues at Transco associated with expansion projects placed in service in 2018 and 2019, as well as the impact of the consolidation of UEOM, higher Northeast volumes at the Susquehanna Supply Hub and Ohio Valley Midstream regions, and higher gathering rates and volumes at the Utica Shale region. These increases are partially offset by the absence of revenues associated with asset divestitures and deconsolidations during 2018, including our former Four Corners area operations (see Note 3 – Acquisitions and Divestitures of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), as well as lower revenue in the Barnett Shale associated with the end of a contractual MVC period and lower revenue at Gulfstar One primarily associated with producer operational issues. Service revenues – commodity consideration decreased due to lower NGL prices and lower volumes primarily due to the absence of our former Four Corners area operations. These revenues represent consideration we receive in the form of commodities as full or partial payment for processing services provided. Most of these NGL volumes are sold within the month processed and therefore are offset in Product costs below. Product sales decreased primarily due to lower NGL and natural gas prices associated with our marketing and equity NGL sales activities, lower volumes from our equity NGL sales primarily reflecting the absence of our former Four Corners area operations, and lower system management gas sales, partially offset by higher marketing volumes. Marketing sales and system management gas sales are substantially offset in Product costs . Product costs decreased primarily due to lower NGL and natural gas prices associated with our marketing and equity NGL production activities. This decrease also includes lower volumes acquired as commodity consideration for NGL processing services reflecting the absence of our former Four Corners area operations and lower system management gas purchases, partially offset by higher volumes for marketing activities. 51 Processing commodity expenses decreased primarily due to lower production of equity NGLs primarily related to ethane rejection and the absence of our former Four Corners area operations, and lower prices for natural gas purchases associated with our NGL production . Operating and maintenance expenses decreased primarily due to the absence of our former Four Corners area operations and lower contracted services at Transco primarily due to the timing of required engine overhauls and integrity testing. These decreases are partially offset by the impact of the consolidation of UEOM and by a $32 million charge for severance and related costs primarily associated with a voluntary separation program (VSP) in 2019. Depreciation and amortization expenses decreased primarily due to the 2018 impairment of certain assets in the Barnett Shale region, which serves to reduce depreciation prospectively, and the absence of assets disposed including our former Four Corners area operations, partially offset by new assets placed in service and by the impact of the consolidation of UEOM. Selling, general, and administrative expenses decreased primarily due to the absences of a charitable contribution of preferred stock to the Williams Foundation, Inc. (see Note 16 – Stockholders' Equity of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) and fees associated with the WPZ Merger, partially offset by a $25 million charge for severance and related costs primarily associated with our 2019 VSP, and transaction expenses associated with the acquisition of UEOM and the formation of the Northeast JV. Impairment of certain assets includes 2019 impairments of our Constitution development project, certain Eagle Ford Shale gathering assets, and certain idle gathering assets. Asset impairments in 2018 included certain assets in the Barnett Shale region and certain idle pipelines (see Note 18 – Fair Value Measurements, Guarantees, and Concentration of Credit Risk of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Gain on sale of certain assets and businesses includes gains recognized on the sales of our Four Corners area and our Gulf Coast pipeline systems in 2018 (see Note 3 – Acquisitions and Divestitures of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The favorable change in Other (income) expense – net within Operating income (loss) includes net favorable changes to charges and credits to regulatory assets and liabilities, partially offset by the absence of a 2018 gain on asset retirement. The unfavorable change in Equity earnings (losses) is primarily due to 2019 losses from our Brazos Permian II investment acquired in December 2018 of $14 million, the impact of the consolidation of UEOM during the first quarter of 2019 which reduced equity earnings by $9 million, and a $7 million unfavorable impact related to the April 2019 sale of our Jackalope investment. Additionally, equity earnings at Aux Sable decreased $9 million related to lower rates reflecting lower NGL prices. These decreases are partially offset by improved results at our Appalachia Midstream Investments of $20 million. The unfavorable change in Impairment of equity-method investments includes 2019 noncash impairments, partially offset by the absence of a 2018 impairment of UEOM (see Note 18 – Fair Value Measurements, Guarantees, and Concentration of Credit Risk of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The unfavorable change in Other investing income (loss) – net includes the absence of 2018 gains on the deconsolidations of our Delaware basin assets and Jackalope, and a 2019 loss on the deconsolidation of Constitution. These were partially offset by a 2019 gain on the disposition of Jackalope (see Note 7 – Investing Activities of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Interest expense increased primarily due to an increase in financing obligations associated with Transco’s Atlantic Sunrise project and lower Interest capitalized related to construction projects that have been placed into service. The unfavorable change in Other income (expense) – net below Operating income (loss) is primarily due to a decrease in equity AFUDC associated with reduced capital expenditures on projects (see Note 6 – Other Income and 52 Expenses of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), partially offset by the absence of 2018 unfavorable settlement charges from our pension early payout program. Provision (benefit) for income taxes changed unfavorably primarily due to higher pre-tax income attributable to The Williams Companies, Inc, partially offset by the absence of a charge to establish $105 million valuation allowance, recorded in 2018, on certain deferred tax assets that may not be realized following the WPZ merger. See Note 8 – Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the effective tax rate compared to the federal statutory rate for both periods. The favorable change in Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests is primarily due to our third- quarter 2018 acquisition of the publicly held interests in WPZ associated with the WPZ Merger, the impairment of Constitution project costs, and lower results at Gulfstar One. Year-Over-Year Operating Results – Segments We evaluate segment operating performance based upon Modified EBITDA . Note 20 – Segment Disclosures of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements includes a reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to Net income (loss) . Management uses Modified EBITDA because it is an accepted financial indicator used by investors to compare company performance.  In addition, management believes that this measure provides investors an enhanced perspective of the operating performance of our assets. Modified EBITDA should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for a measure of performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Transmission & Gulf of Mexico 2020 vs. 2019 Transmission & Gulf of Mexico Modified EBITDA increased primarily due to lower Impairment of certain assets and favorable changes to Other segment costs and expenses, partially offset by decreased Service revenues . Service revenues decreased primarily due to: • A $115 million decrease due to lower deferred revenue amortization associated with the end of the exclusive use period at Gulfstar One for the Tubular Bells field; • A $42 million decrease due to temporary shut-ins primarily at Perdido and Gulfstar One related to Gulf of Mexico weather-related events, pricing, and scheduled maintenance; 53 • A $32 million decrease due to lower volumes at Gulfstar One in the Gunflint field due to ongoing operational issues; partially offset by • A $65 million increase in Transco’s and Northwest Pipeline’s natural gas transportation revenues associated with expansion projects placed in service in 2019 and 2020; • A $44 million increase at Gulfstar One associated with higher volumes in the Tubular Bells field due to a new well and higher production; • A $24 million increase associated with volumes from Norphlet placed in service in June 2019. The net sum of Service revenues – commodity consideration, Product sales, Product costs, and Processing commodity expenses comprise our commodity margins. Our commodity margins associated with our equity NGLs decreased $11 million driven by lower commodity prices and volumes.  Additionally, the decrease in Product sales includes a $47 million decrease in commodity marketing sales due to lower NGL prices and volumes and $27 million lower system management gas sales. Marketing sales and system management gas sales are substantially offset in Product costs and therefore have little impact to Modified EBITDA. Other segment costs and expenses decreased primarily due to lower employee-related expenses, including the absence of 2019 severance and related costs and the associated reduced costs in 2020, as well as the favorable impact of a change in an employee benefit policy (see Note 6 – Other Income and Expenses of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), lower maintenance costs primarily due to a decrease in contracted services related to general maintenance and other testing at Transco, the absence of a 2019 charge for reversal of costs capitalized in previous periods and net favorable changes to charges and credits associated with a regulatory asset related to Transco’s asset retirement obligations, partially offset by lower equity AFUDC and higher operating taxes. Impairment of certain assets includes the absence of the impairment of our Constitution development project in 2019, partially offset by the impairment of our Northeast Supply Enhancement development project in 2020 (see Note 18 – Fair Value Measurements, Guarantees, and Concentration of Credit Risk of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Proportional Modified EBITDA of equity-method investments decreased at Discovery driven by lower volumes due to scheduled maintenance and temporary shut-ins related to Gulf of Mexico weather-related events and pricing. 2019 vs. 2018 Transmission & Gulf of Mexico Modified EBITDA decreased primarily due to the impairment of Constitution, the absence of a 2018 Gain on sale of certain assets and businesses , and higher Other segment costs and expenses , partially offset by increased Service revenues related to expansion projects placed into service during 2018 and 2019. Service revenues increased primarily due to a $403 million increase in Transco’s natural gas transportation revenues primarily driven by a $358 million increase related to expansion projects placed in service in 2018 and 2019, as well as higher revenue associated with Transco’s general rate case settlement and increased amounts for reimbursable power and storage expenses. Partially offsetting these increases were lower fee revenues of $62 million primarily due to producer operational issues and lower deferred revenue amortization at Gulfstar One, as well as the sale of certain Gulf Coast pipeline assets in fourth-quarter 2018. The net sum of Service revenues – commodity consideration, Product sales, Product costs, and Processing commodity expenses comprise our commodity margins. Our commodity margins associated with our equity NGLs decreased $16 million, consisting of a $26 million decrease associated with unfavorable net realized NGL sales prices, partially offset by a $10 million increase associated with higher sales volumes.  The higher NGL volumes were primarily related to the absence of 2018 downtime to modify the Mobile Bay processing plant for the Norphlet project. Additionally, the decrease in Product sales includes a $93 million decrease in commodity marketing sales due to lower NGL prices and volumes and a $39 million decrease in system management gas sales. Marketing sales 54 and system management gas sales are substantially offset in Product costs and therefore have little impact to Modified EBITDA. Other segment costs and expenses increased primarily due a $56 million unfavorable change in Transco’s equity AFUDC due to lower construction activity, a $39 million charge in 2019 for severance and related costs primarily associated with our 2019 VSP, a $21 million increase in reimbursable power and storage expenses, $16 million of expense in 2019 related to the reversal of expenditures previously capitalized, and the absence of a $12 million 2018 gain on asset retirements. These unfavorable changes were partially offset by $77 million of net favorable changes to charges and credits associated with regulatory assets and liabilities, which were significantly driven by the previously mentioned settlement in Transco’s general rate case, a $46 million decrease in Transco’s contracted services compared to 2018 mainly due to the timing of required engine overhauls and integrity testing, and the absence of a 2018 unfavorable charge of $12 million for a regulatory liability associated with a decrease in Northwest Pipeline’s estimated deferred state income tax rate following the WPZ Merger. Impairment of certain assets includes the 2019 impairment of our Constitution development project (see                       Note 18 – Fair Value Measurements, Guarantees, and Concentration of Credit Risk of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Gain on sale of certain assets and businesses reflects an $81 million gain from the sale of our Gulf Coast pipeline system assets in fourth-quarter 2018 (see Note 3 – Acquisitions and Divestitures of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Northeast G&P 2020 vs. 2019 Northeast G&P Modified EBITDA increased primarily due to higher Service revenues, lower Other segment costs and expenses, and increased Proportional Modified EBITDA of equity-method investments , in addition to the favorable impact of acquiring the additional interest in UEOM, which is a consolidated entity after the remaining ownership interest was purchased in March 2019. Service revenues increased primarily due to: • A $94 million increase at the Northeast JV, including $62 million higher processing, fractionation, transportation, and gathering revenues primarily due to higher volumes and a $32 million increase associated with the consolidation of UEOM, as previously discussed; 55 • A $20 million increase in gathering revenues associated with higher volumes in the Utica Shale region; • A $13 million increase in revenues associated with reimbursable electricity expenses, which is offset by similar changes in electricity charges, reflected in Other segment costs and expenses. Product sales decreased primarily due to lower NGL volumes and prices within our marketing activities, and lower system management gas sales. Marketing sales and system management gas sales are offset by similar changes in marketing purchases and system management gas purchases, reflected above as Product costs , and therefore have little impact to Modified EBITDA . Other segment costs and expenses decreased due to lower employee-related expenses, including the absence of 2019 severance and related costs and the associated reduced costs in 2020, as well as the favorable impact of a change in an employee benefit policy (see Note 6 – Other Income and Expenses of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), and lower maintenance and operating expenses primarily due to timing and scope of activities. Additionally, expenses changed favorably due to the absence of transaction costs associated with our 2019 acquisition of UEOM and the formation of the Northeast JV. These decreases were partially offset by higher reimbursable electricity expenses, increased expenses associated with the consolidation of UEOM, and the absence of a favorable customer settlement in 2019. Impairment of certain assets includes a $12 million impairment of certain gathering assets in the Marcellus Shale region in 2020 and a $10 million write-down of other certain assets that were no longer in use or were surplus in nature in 2019 (see Note 18 – Fair Value Measurements, Guarantees, and Concentration of Credit Risk of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Proportional Modified EBITDA of equity-method investments increased at Appalachia Midstream Investments driven by higher volumes, partially offset by a $26 million decrease for our share of an impairment of certain assets. Additionally, there was an increase at Blue Racer/Caiman II primarily due to higher volumes and the favorable impact of increased ownership, partially offset by a $10 million decrease for our share of an impairment of certain assets. These increases were partially offset by a $16 million decrease as a result of the consolidation of UEOM in 2019, as previously discussed, as well as a decrease at Laurel Mountain primarily due to $11 million for our share of an impairment of certain assets that were subsequently sold, partially offset by higher volumes, and a decrease at Aux Sable. 2019 vs. 2018 Northeast G&P Modified EBITDA increased primarily due to higher Service revenues due to increased gathering volumes, as well as the $38 million favorable impact of acquiring the additional interest in UEOM, partially offset by 2019 impairments. Service revenues increased primarily due to: • A $158 million increase associated with the consolidation of UEOM, as previously discussed; • A $102 million increase associated with higher gathering revenues at Susquehanna Supply Hub reflecting 18 percent higher gathering volumes due to increased production from customers and higher rates; • A $49 million increase at Ohio Valley Midstream primarily due to higher gathering, processing, and transportation volumes; • A $36 million increase in gathering revenues in the Utica Shale region due to higher rates and volumes from new wells; • A $14 million increase in compression revenues for services charged to an affiliate driven by higher volumes. Product sales decreased primarily due to lower non-ethane volumes and prices within our marketing activities. The changes in marketing revenues are offset by similar changes in marketing purchases, reflected above as Product costs . 56 Other segment costs and expenses increased primarily due to: • A $53 million increase associated with the consolidation of UEOM; • A $10 million increase related to transaction expenses associated with the acquisition of UEOM and the formation of the Northeast JV; • A $7 million charge in 2019 for severance and related costs primarily associated with our VSP. Impairment of certain assets increased due to a $10 million write-down of other certain assets that are no longer in use or are surplus in nature in 2019 (see Note 18 – Fair Value Measurements, Guarantees, and Concentration of Credit Risk of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Proportional Modified EBITDA of equity-method investments decreased $59 million as a result of the consolidation of UEOM and $10 million due to unfavorable rates reflecting lower NGL prices at Aux Sable. This decrease was partially offset by a $29 million increase at Appalachia Midstream Investments, reflecting higher volumes due to increased customer production. West 2020 vs. 2019 West Modified EBITDA increased primarily due to the absence of Impairment of certain assets and lower Other segment costs and expenses , partially offset by lower Service revenues . Service revenues decreased primarily due to: • An $83 million decrease associated with lower volumes, excluding the Eagle Ford Shale region; • A $72 million decrease driven by lower deferred revenue amortization and MVC deficiency fee revenues associated with the second-quarter 2019 expiration of the MVC agreement in the Barnett Shale region; • A $47 million decrease associated with lower rates, excluding the Eagle Ford Shale region, driven by lower commodity pricing in the Barnett Shale region and the expiration of a cost-of-service period on a contract in the Mid-Continent region; • An $11 million decrease associated with lower fractionation fees driven by lower volumes; 57 • An $8 million decrease driven by the absence of a favorable 2019 cost-of-service agreement adjustment in the Mid-Continent region; partially offset by • A $91 million increase in the Eagle Ford Shale region due to higher MVC revenue and higher rates, partially offset by lower volumes primarily due to decreased producer activity, including temporary shut-ins on certain gathering systems; • A $29 million increase associated with a temporary volume deficiency fee associated with reduced volumes from a shipper on OPPL; • A $26 million increase in the Wamsutter region associated with higher MVC revenue. The net sum of Service revenues – commodity consideration, Product sales, Product costs, and Processing commodity expenses comprise our commodity margins, which we further segregate into product margins associated with our equity NGLs and marketing margins. Product margins from our equity NGLs decreased $29 million primarily due to: • A $35 million decrease associated with lower sales prices primarily due to 25 percent lower average net realized per-unit non-ethane sales prices; • A $15 million decrease primarily associated with 14 percent lower non-ethane sales volumes driven by less producer drilling activity; partially offset by • A $21 million increase related to a decline in natural gas purchases associated with equity NGL production due to lower natural gas prices and lower equity non-ethane production volumes. Additionally, marketing margins increased by $23 million primarily due to favorable changes in net commodity prices. The decrease in Product sales includes a $168 million decrease in marketing sales, which is due to lower sales prices, partially offset by higher marketing sales volumes. An $18 million decrease in other product sales also contributed to the overall decrease. These decreases are substantially offset in Product costs. Other segment costs and expenses decreased primarily due to lower employee-related expenses driven by the absence of 2019 severance and related costs and the associated reduced costs in 2020, and the  favorable impact of a change in an employee benefit policy (see Note 6 – Other Income and Expenses of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), as well as lower operating costs due to fewer leased compressors and lower maintenance costs primarily due to timing and scope of activities. These favorable changes are partially offset by the absence of $12 million in favorable settlements in 2019. Impairment of certain assets decreased primarily due to the absence of a $79 million impairment of certain Eagle Ford Shale gathering assets and a $12 million impairment of certain idle gathering assets in 2019 (see       Note 18 – Fair Value Measurements, Guarantees, and Concentration of Credit Risk of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Proportional Modified EBITDA of equity-method investments decreased primarily due to lower volumes at OPPL and the absence of the Jackalope equity-method investment sold in April 2019, partially offset by growth at the RMM, Brazos Permian II, and Targa Train 7 equity-method investments. 2019 vs. 2018 West Modified EBITDA increased primarily due to lower Impairment of certain assets and lower Other segment costs and expenses, partially offset by a lower gain on sale of certain assets in 2019, lower Service revenues, and lower commodity margins. Service revenues decreased primarily due to: • A $218 million decrease associated with asset divestitures and deconsolidations during 2018 and 2019, including our former Four Corners area assets, certain Delaware basin assets that were contributed to our 58 Brazos Permian II equity-method investment, and our Jackalope assets which were deconsolidated in second-quarter 2018 and subsequently sold in second-quarter 2019; • A $57 million decrease driven by lower deferred revenue amortization and MVC deficiency fee revenues in the Barnett Shale region primarily associated with the expiration of a certain MVC agreement; • A $17 million decrease driven by lower gathering volumes primarily in the Mid-Continent, Barnett Shale, and Wamsutter regions, partially offset by higher gathering volumes primarily in the Haynesville Shale and Eagle Ford regions; • A $15 million decrease associated with lower processing rates primarily driven by lower commodity pricing in the Piceance region; • A $15 million decrease associated with lower gathering rates primarily in the Mid-Continent and Haynesville Shale regions; partially offset by • A $17 million increase related to other MVC deficiency fee revenues; • A $13 million increase related to higher fractionation and storage fees; • An $8 million increase associated with the resolution of a prior period performance obligation. The net sum of Service revenues – commodity consideration, Product sales, Product costs, and Processing commodity expenses comprise our commodity margins. Our commodity margins associated with our equity NGLs decreased by $127 million primarily due to: • A $98 million decrease associated with lower sales volumes, consisting of $54 million related to the absence of our former Four Corners area assets and $44 million due to 12 percent lower non-ethane volumes and 33 percent lower ethane sales volumes primarily due to higher ethane rejection in 2019, natural declines, less producer drilling activity, and more severe weather conditions in first-quarter 2019; • A $66 million decrease associated with lower sales prices primarily due to 29 percent and 48 percent lower average net realized per-unit non-ethane and ethane sales prices, respectively; partially offset by • A $37 million increase related to lower natural gas purchases associated with lower equity NGL production volumes and lower natural gas prices, including $9 million related to the absence of our former Four Corners area assets. Additionally, the decrease in Product sales includes a $447 million decrease in marketing sales, which is due to lower sales prices, partially offset by higher sales volumes, and a $36 million decrease related to the sale of other products. These decreases are substantially offset in Product costs. Marketing margins increased by $27 million primarily due to favorable changes in prices. Other segment costs and expenses decreased primarily due to a $127 million reduction associated with the absence of our former Four Corners area assets and from the Jackalope deconsolidation in second-quarter 2018, $12 million favorable settlements in 2019, as well as $7 million lower ad valorem taxes. These decreases were partially offset by an unfavorable charge in 2019 for severance and related costs primarily associated with our VSP of $10 million. Impairment of certain assets decreased primarily due to the absence of the $1.849 billion Barnett impairment in in 2018, partially offset by small impairment charges in 2019 (see Note 18 – Fair Value Measurements, Guarantees, and Concentration of Credit Risk of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The decrease in Gain on sale of certain assets and businesses reflects the absence of the gain from the sale of our Four Corners area assets recorded in the fourth quarter of 2018 (see Note 3 – Acquisitions and Divestitures of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). 59 Proportional Modified EBITDA of equity-method investments increased primarily due to the additions of the RMM and Brazos Permian II equity-method investments in the second half of 2018, partially offset by the sale of our Jackalope investment in second-quarter 2019. Other 2020 vs. 2019 Other Modified EBITDA decreased primarily due to: • A $24 million charge in fourth quarter of 2020 related to a legal settlement associated with former olefins operations; • A charge of $15 million related to the write-offs of certain regulatory assets associated with cancelled projects in 2020; partially offset by • The absence of a $12 million unfavorable adjustment to a regulatory asset associated with an increase in Transco’s estimated deferred state income tax rate following the WPZ Merger. 2019 vs. 2018 Other Modified EBITDA increased primarily due to: • The absence of the $66 million impairment of certain idle pipelines in the second quarter of 2018 (see                      Note 18 – Fair Value Measurements, Guarantees, and Concentration of Credit Risk of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); • The absence of a $35 million charge in 2018 associated with a charitable contribution of preferred stock to The Williams Companies Foundation, Inc. (a not-for-profit corporation) (see Note 16 – Stockholders' Equity of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); • The absence of $20 million in costs in 2018 associated with the WPZ Merger (see Note 1 – General, Description of Business, Basis of Presentation, and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); • An $8 million increase related to the absence of 2018 unfavorable Modified EBITDA associated with the results of certain of our former Gulf Coast area operations sold in 2018; • The absence of a $7 million loss on early retirement of debt in 2018. These increases were partially offset by: • The absence of a $37 million benefit of establishing a regulatory asset associated with an increase in Transco’s estimated deferred state income tax rate following the WPZ Merger in 2018 and a subsequent unfavorable $12 million adjustment in the first quarter of 2019; • A $26 million decrease in income associated with a regulatory asset related to deferred taxes on equity funds used during construction; • The absence of a $20 million gain on the sale of certain assets and operations located in the Gulf Coast area in 2018 (see Note 3 – Acquisitions and Divestitures of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). 60 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Liquidity Overview As previously discussed, we have continued to focus on earnings and cash flow growth, while continuing to improve leverage metrics and control operating costs. During 2020, we retired approximately $2.1 billion of long-term debt and issued approximately $2.2 billion of new long-term debt. In July 2020, we paid $284 million for rate refunds related to Transco’s increased rates collected since the new rates became effective in March 2019. In 2020, we acquired substantially all of the remaining outstanding ownership interests in Caiman II for approximately $157 million, net of cash acquired. See also the section titled Sources (Uses) of Cash . Outlook As previously discussed in Company Outlook, our growth capital and investment expenditures in 2021 are currently expected to be in a range from $1.0 billion to $1.2 billion. Growth capital spending in 2021 primarily includes Transco expansions, all of which are fully contracted with firm transportation agreements, and projects supporting the Northeast G&P business and opportunities in the Haynesville area. In addition to growth capital and investment expenditures, we also remain committed to projects that maintain our assets for safe and reliable operations, as well as projects that meet legal, regulatory, and/or contractual commitments. We intend to fund substantially all of our planned 2021 capital spending with cash available after paying dividends. We retain the flexibility to adjust planned levels of growth capital and investment expenditures in response to changes in economic conditions or business opportunities. As of December 31, 2020, we have $893 million of long-term debt due within one year. Our potential sources of liquidity available to address these maturities include proceeds from refinancing at attractive long-term rates or from our credit facility, as well as proceeds from asset monetizations. Liquidity Based on our forecasted levels of cash flow from operations and other sources of liquidity, we expect to have sufficient liquidity to manage our businesses in 2021. Our potential material internal and external sources and uses of liquidity are as follows: As of December 31, 2020, we have approximately $21.5 billion of long-term debt due after one year. See    Note 14 – Debt and Banking Arrangements of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the aggregate maturities over the next five years. Our potential sources of liquidity available to address these maturities include cash generated from operations, proceeds from refinancing at attractive long-term rates or from our credit facility, as well as proceeds from asset monetizations. 61 Potential risks associated with our planned levels of liquidity discussed above include those previously discussed in Company Outlook . As of December 31, 2020, we had a working capital deficit of $890 million, including cash and cash equivalents and long-term debt due within one year. Our available liquidity is as follows: __________ (1) In managing our available liquidity, we do not expect a maximum outstanding amount in excess of the capacity of our credit facility inclusive of any outstanding amounts under our commercial paper program. We had no commercial paper outstanding as of December 31, 2020. The highest amount outstanding under our commercial paper program and credit facility during 2020 was $1.7 billion. At December 31, 2020, we were in compliance with the financial covenants associated with our credit facility. See Note 14 – Debt and Banking Arrangements of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our credit facility and commercial paper program. Dividends We increased our regular quarterly cash dividend to common stockholders by approximately 5 percent from the $0.38 per share paid in each quarter of 2019, to $0.40 per share paid in each quarter of 2020. Registrations To replace our recently expired shelf registration statement, we anticipate filing a new shelf registration statement as a well-known seasoned issuer. Distributions from Equity-Method Investees The organizational documents of entities in which we have an equity-method investment generally require periodic distributions of their available cash to their members. In each case, available cash is reduced, in part, by reserves appropriate for operating their respective businesses. See Note 7 – Investing Activities of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for our more significant equity-method investees. Credit Ratings The interest rates at which we are able to borrow money are impacted by our credit ratings. The current ratings are as follows: In November 2020, Fitch Ratings upgraded our credit rating from BBB- to BBB. In January 2021, Moody’s changed our Outlook from Stable to Positive. These credit ratings are included for informational purposes and are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold our securities, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. No assurance can be given that the credit rating agencies will continue to assign us investment-grade ratings even if we meet or exceed their current 62 criteria for investment-grade ratios. A downgrade of our credit ratings might increase our future cost of borrowing and would require us to provide additional collateral to third parties, negatively impacting our available liquidity. Sources (Uses) of Cash The following table summarizes the sources (uses) of cash and cash equivalents for each of the periods presented (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Notes referenced in the table): Operating activities The factors that determine operating activities are largely the same as those that affect Net income (loss) , with the exception of noncash items such as Depreciation and amortization , Provision (benefit) for deferred income taxes , Equity (earnings) losses , Gain on disposition of equity-method investments , ( Gain) on sale of certain assets and businesses , ( Gain) loss on deconsolidation of businesses , Impairment of goodwill , Impairment of equity-method investments , and Impairment of certain assets. Our Net cash provided (used) by operating activities in 2020 decreased from 2019 primarily due to the net unfavorable changes in net operating working capital in 2020, including the payment of Transco’s rate refunds in 2020 and the decrease in the income tax refund that was received in 2020 compared to that received in 2019, partially offset by higher operating income (excluding noncash items as previously discussed) in 2020. Our Net cash provided (used) by operating activities in 2019 increased from 2018 primarily due to the net favorable changes in operating working capital in 2019, including the collection of Transco’s filed rates subject to refund and the receipt of an income tax refund, as well as higher operating income (excluding noncash items as previously discussed) in 2019, partially offset by the impact of decreased distributions from unconsolidated affiliates in 2019. 63 Environmental We are a participant in certain environmental activities in various stages including assessment studies, cleanup operations, and/or remedial processes at certain sites, some of which we currently do not own (see Note 19 – Contingent Liabilities and Commitments of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). We are monitoring these sites in a coordinated effort with other potentially responsible parties, the EPA, or other governmental authorities. We are jointly and severally liable along with unrelated third parties in some of these activities and solely responsible in others. Current estimates of the most likely costs of such activities are approximately $33 million, all of which are included in Accrued liabilities and Regulatory liabilities, deferred income, and other in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2020. We will seek recovery of the accrued costs related to remediation activities by our interstate gas pipelines totaling approximately $4 million through future natural gas transmission rates. The remainder of these costs will be funded from operations. During 2020, we paid approximately $3 million for cleanup and/or remediation and monitoring activities. We expect to pay approximately $11 million in 2021 for these activities. Estimates of the most likely costs of cleanup are generally based on completed assessment studies, preliminary results of studies, or our experience with other similar cleanup operations. At December 31, 2020, certain assessment studies were still in process for which the ultimate outcome may yield different estimates of most likely costs. Therefore, the actual costs incurred will depend on the final amount, type, and extent of contamination discovered at these sites, the final cleanup standards mandated by the EPA or other governmental authorities, and other factors. The EPA and various state regulatory agencies routinely promulgate and propose new rules and issue updated guidance to existing rules. These rulemakings include, but are not limited to, rules for reciprocating internal combustion engine and combustion turbine maximum achievable control technology, air quality standards for one-hour nitrogen dioxide emissions, and volatile organic compound and methane new source performance standards impacting design and operation of storage vessels, pressure valves, and compressors. The EPA previously issued its rule regarding National Ambient Air Quality Standards for ground-level ozone. We are monitoring the rule's implementation as it will trigger additional federal and state regulatory actions that may impact our operations. Implementation of the regulations is expected to result in impacts to our operations and increase the cost of additions to Property, plant, and equipment – net in the Consolidated Balance Sheet for both new and existing facilities in affected areas. We are unable to reasonably estimate the cost of additions that may be required to meet the regulations at this time due to uncertainty created by various legal challenges to these regulations and the need for further specific regulatory guidance. Our interstate natural gas pipelines consider prudently incurred environmental assessment and remediation costs and the costs associated with compliance with environmental standards to be recoverable through rates. 64