********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

In evaluating our business and investment in our securities, investors should carefully consider the following discussion of material factors and events, along with all of the other information in this Report and in our other filings with the SEC. The events and consequences discussed below could, in circumstances that we may not be able to accurately predict, recognize or control, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or market price of our common stock. These risk factors do not identify all of the risks we face. Our business is also subject to general risks that affect many other companies. In addition, we operate in a continually changing business, economic and geopolitical environment and as a result, new risk factors, or changes to our risk profile, may emerge from time to time. Risks not currently known to us, or that we currently believe are immaterial, may impact our business, operations, financial condition or share price. The global economic and geopolitical climate, including as a result of the war between Russia and Ukraine, the coronavirus ("COVID-19") pandemic, and macroeconomic conditions, amplify many of the risks below. Risks in this section are grouped in the following categories: (1) Risks Related to Geopolitical, Macroeconomic and Industry Factors; (2) Risks Related to Our Business and Operations; (3) Risks Related to Financial and Tax; (4) Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory; and (5) Risks Related to the Proposed Acquisition of Evoqua. Many risks affect more than one category, and as a result the risks are not in order of significance or probability of occurrence. Risks Related to Geopolitical, Macroeconomic and Industry Factors Industry and economic conditions may adversely affect our markets and our customers’ operating conditions, which can in turn affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. With sales in approximately 150 countries, we compete across a wide range of geographic and end-markets. Material economic and industry factors impacting our businesses include: (i) the overall strength of, and our customers’ confidence in, local and global macroeconomic conditions; (ii) inflation, (iii) overall strength of industrial, governmental, public and private sector spending; (iv) overall strength of the industrial, residential and commercial real estate markets; (v) federal, state, local and municipal governmental fiscal, trade and procurement laws, regulations and policies, including with respect to domestic content; (vi) the availability of commercial financing for our customers and end-users; and (vii) the degree of funding for our public sector customers, including with respect to water infrastructure investments. Macroeconomic impacts and dynamics, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, with respect to supply chain shortages, logistics challenges, tight labor markets and inflation, have had, and continue to have, a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Future slowdowns, economic recession, or other prolonged downturns in the global economy or our markets could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and stock price. We are exposed to geopolitical, regulatory, economic, foreign exchange and other risks associated with our global sales, supply chain and operations. In 2022, 47% of our total revenue was from sales to U.S. customers and 53% was from sales to customers outside the U.S. We expect our sales from international operations and export sales to continue to be a significant portion of our revenue. Many of our manufacturing operations, employees, suppliers and distribution channels are located outside of the U.S. Our operations, supply chain and sales both within the U.S. and internationally are subject, in varying degrees, to risks and uncertainties inherent in doing business globally, including: • economic nationalism, populism, protectionism, anti-global sentiment and changes in trade protection measures, including embargoes, tariffs and other trade barriers, import and export regulations, licensing requirements, and new and existing domestic content requirements for projects receiving governmental funding; • instability of and impacts from the evolving global geopolitical environment, including with respect to the relationships among the U.S., European Union, China, Taiwan, or other foreign countries, and the international community at large; • threat, outbreak, uncertainty or escalation of terrorism, political instability, insurrection, war or other armed conflict, including between Russia and Ukraine; • threat or outbreak of epidemics, global health crises or pandemics, such as COVID-19, and related uncertainties; 17 • changes in tax laws and potential negative consequences from the interpretation, application and enforcement by governmental tax authorities of tax laws and policies, and changes in other laws and regulations or how such provisions are interpreted or administered; • disruptions in our global supply chain, operations or those of third parties upon which we rely, including due to labor or supply shortages, freight and logistics challenges; • actual or threatened war or armed conflict, labor actions, or civil, political or other disturbances; • unfavorable circumstances arising from host country laws or regulations, including those related to infrastructure and data transmission, security and privacy; • theft, compromise or misappropriation of our technology, intellectual property or data; • shocks to the global financial system, including due to the outbreak or threat of war, armed conflict, other geopolitical conflicts, terrorism or global health crises, the effects of climate change, or other idiosyncratic events; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, restrictions on repatriation of earnings or payment of distributions, dividends, loans or advances to us by foreign subsidiaries; • global or regional safety and security considerations; and • increased costs and risks in developing, staffing and simultaneously managing our many global operations as a result of distance, remote work arrangements, language and cultural differences. In the year ended December 31, 2022, 19% of our total revenues were generated in emerging markets and we have placed a particular emphasis in our strategy on increasing our growth and presence in emerging markets, including China, India, and key markets in Africa. Beyond the general risks that we face outside the U.S., our operations in emerging markets are subject to additional risks and uncertainties, including: (i) governments may impose or increase withholding or other taxes on remittances and other payments to us; (ii) governments may seek to nationalize our assets; (iii) governments may impose or increase investment barriers or other restrictions affecting our business; (iv) difficulty in enforcing commercial agreements; (v) challenges collecting receivables, or protecting our intellectual property and other assets; (vi) pressure on the pricing of our products and services; (vii) higher business conduct risks; and (viii) challenges in our ability to attract and retain qualified talent and labor. We cannot predict the impact that such factors might have on our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and stock price. We have significant sales, operations and direct or indirect suppliers located in China, which have been in the past, or could in the future be, adversely affected by China’s evolving laws, regulations and policies, including with respect to its evolving COVID Policy, import and export tariffs and restrictions, and information security and privacy. Our business and operating results could also be adversely impacted by changes in the political and geopolitical environment involving China, including U.S.-China or China-Taiwan relations. For example, the U.S.’ imposition of tariffs on goods imported from China or deemed to be of Chinese origin, as well as the potential for new tariffs, other governmental actions, trade embargoes or sanctions by the U.S., or countermeasures imposed by China in response, has in the past and could in the future have an adverse direct or indirect impact our global supply chain, manufacturing costs, and sales and operations in China. Furthermore, geopolitical changes in China-Taiwan relations could disrupt the operations of several companies in Taiwan that are critical to our complex, global supply chain, including with respect to the supply of semiconductors (“chips”) and other electronic components. Such changes could likely have significant negative effects on the global semiconductor industry and could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our digitally-enabled products, such as pumps, controllers and smart meters. In the year ended December 31, 2022, 47% of our revenues was from sales to U.S. customers, which included sales of products sold into federally funded projects. We expect our U.S. sales in 2023 and beyond to be similar. However, we may not be able to successfully compete for federally funded projects as some of our products may not comply with the domestic content requirements of the U.S. Buy America mandate under the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (“IIJA”), as well as other federally funded projects. We continue to evaluate the risks associated with the Buy America mandate, as well as related mitigation options around sourcing and manufacturing, but there is no guarantee that we will be able to meet applicable domestic content requirements across all our product lines. While governmental exemptions and waivers may in the future be issued that negate the application of the Buy America mandate to some or all of our potential sales into IIJA and other federally funded projects, it is uncertain whether and to what extent such exemptions or waivers may be issued. An inability to meet applicable domestic content requirements for U.S. federally funded projects could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 18 We are unable to predict the extent to which the ongoing global COVID-19 pandemic, or other outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, or public health crises may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our global operations expose us to risks associated with public health crises, including epidemics and pandemics. Outbreaks of epidemics, pandemics, or public health crises could adversely affect, among other things, demand for our products and services; our operations and sales; our supply chain; our research and development capabilities, engineering, design, and manufacturing processes; and other important business activities. Such outbreaks could result in the restriction or suspension of travel, prohibitions of non-essential activities, and limit in-person activities within our Company and with customers and could also present operational challenges, such as disruptions in our manufacturing and supply chain and logistics, all of which can adversely affect our ability to fulfill orders, provide services, respond to customer requests and maintain our business operations. We are unable to predict the full extent of the impact of the outbreak of epidemics, pandemics, or public health crises on our operations, customers and suppliers. Since early 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic and its variants have resulted in, and may continue to result in, a slowdown of global economic activity, travel restrictions, prohibitions of non-essential activities in some cases, disruption and shutdown of businesses, including that of our customers and suppliers. Our operations have been affected by a range of external factors related to the COVID-19 pandemic that are not within our control, including the various governmental restrictions on employees, customers, partners and suppliers, such as China’s COVID Policy, designed to limit the spread of COVID-19. The pandemic and broader global market supply and demand dynamics have impacted, and continue to impact our supply chain with unpredictable disruptions due to material and component shortages, including with respect to key electronic components such as chips, capacity constraints, delays in shipment of materials necessary to the manufacture of our products, freight and logistics challenges, tight labor markets and inflation. While component supply shortages are showing signs of recovery, they may nevertheless persist, adversely disrupting our business. The ultimate extent of the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, including as a result of possible subsequent outbreaks of new variants and measures taken in response thereto remains highly uncertain and cannot currently be predicted and we may not be successful at mitigating such impacts. The COVID-19 pandemic caused significant volatility and uncertainty in the global financial and capital markets. A further disruption of these markets, or resulting economic downturn from the COVID-19 pandemic or outbreak of other global health crises, may impact our ability to incur debt or access capital, or increase our cost of capital. There are no assurances that the credit markets or the capital markets will be available to us in the future or that the lenders participating in our credit facilities will be able to provide financing in accordance with their contractual obligations. Additionally, concerns over the economic impacts of COVID-19 have caused, and may continue to cause, volatility in our stock price. A sustained economic downturn could impact our liquidity position, including our ability to continue to pay dividends, or could impact our asset values resulting in the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets exceeding their fair value, which may require us to recognize an impairment to those assets. Inflation, tariffs, customs duties and other increases in manufacturing and operating costs have, and could continue to, adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Our operating costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly due to changes in prices for commodities, parts, raw materials, energy and related utilities, freight and logistics, and cost of labor, which have been and may continue to be driven by a variety of factors, including inflation, tight labor markets, prevailing price levels, exchange rates, changes in trade agreements and trade protection measures including tariffs, and other economic factors. Throughout 2022 our operating costs have been adversely impacted by price inflation, including with respect to the cost of certain raw materials, electronic components, commodities, freight and logistics, and we expect this to continue for the foreseeable future. In addition, we have significant manufacturing operations in Europe, which could be adversely impacted by increased costs for energy as a result of the Russia-Ukraine conflict and governments' efforts to decrease dependence on Russia energy supplies. The U.S. has enacted various trade actions, including imposing tariffs on certain goods we import from China and other countries, which has resulted in retaliatory tariffs by China and other countries. Additional tariffs imposed by the U.S., or further retaliatory trade measures taken by China or other countries, could increase the cost of our products that we may not be able to offset through price increases or productivity. Further, in a declining price environment, our operating margins may contract because we account for inventory using the first-in, first-out method. Actions we take to mitigate volatility in manufacturing and operating costs may not be successful and, as a result, our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 19 Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Failure to compete successfully in our markets, including our ability to develop and commercialize innovative and disruptive technologies, could adversely affect our business. We offer our technologies, products and services in highly competitive markets. We believe the principal points of competition are product and service performance, quality and reliability, innovation, speed to market with new or disruptive technologies and business models, application expertise, brand reputation, energy efficiency, product security, product life cycle cost, timeliness of delivery, proximity of our service centers to customers, effectiveness of our distribution channels, price and customers’ experience in doing business with us. Maintaining and improving our competitive position will require successful management of these factors in a business environment with increasingly rapid rates of change and disruption. Our competitive position and future growth rate depend upon a number of factors, including our ability to successfully: (i) innovate, develop and maintain competitive and secure products and services, as well as business models and customer experience, to address emerging regulations and trends and meet customers’ needs (including those related to social, environmental and sustainability matters), (ii) defend our market share against an ever-expanding number of competitors, many of which are new and non-traditional competitors from outside our industry, such as large technology firms, or those out of emerging markets, (iii) enhance our product and service offerings by adding innovative features, increased efficiency or disruptive technologies that differentiate them from those of our competitors and prevent commoditization, (iv) develop, manufacture and bring compelling, secure and efficient new products and services to market quickly and cost-effectively, (v) continue to cultivate, develop and maintain our distribution network of channel partners, (vi) attract, develop and retain individuals with the requisite innovation, digital and technical expertise and understanding of customers’ needs to develop and commercialize new technologies, products and services, (vii) continue to leverage and expand our external ecosystem of innovation partners from universities, venture capital, the start-up of community and other technology firms, (viii) continue to invest in our manufacturing, research and development, engineering, sales and marketing, digitization of customer service and support tools, and distribution networks, (ix) win large contracts, and (i) compete for business subject to applicable governmental procurement laws, regulations and policies, including new and existing domestic content requirements in the U.S. and globally, as they may evolve over time. We may not be successful in maintaining our competitive position, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. The failure of our technologies, products or services to maintain and gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings, failure of our products to comply with new governmental regulations or policies, or customers’ slower-than-expected adoption of and investment in our new and innovative technologies could significantly reduce our revenues or market share and adversely affect our competitive position. Pricing pressures could cause us to adjust the prices of certain products to stay competitive, or we may not be able to continue to win large contracts, which could adversely affect our market share and competitive position. 20 Cybersecurity incidents or other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure, communications networks and operations could adversely affect our business, products and services. Our business operations, including manufacturing, rely on information technology, operational technology, and communications networks, some of which are operated by third parties, including cloud-based service providers, to process, transmit and store our electronic information, including sensitive data such as confidential business information and personal data relating to employees, customers or other business partners. As a result of the evolution of new ways of working, a significant portion of our workforce has transitioned to remote working and are therefore reliant on our information technology infrastructure and communication networks and access to reliable and safe communication networks in their communities in order to be able to perform their jobs. We also rely on third parties’ information technology systems to run manufacturing processes, to store or manage data, or to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including with regard to remote work. Regardless of protection measures, essentially all systems are susceptible to damage, disruption or shut-down due to cybersecurity attacks, including ransomware, denial-of-service, computer viruses and security breaches; equipment or system failure, including due to maintenance, obsolescence or age; and other events or circumstances, such as human error or malfeasance, vandalism, natural disaster, fire, power, communication or other utility outage, shutdown or failure. While we have certain system redundancies as well as business continuity and disaster recovery planning and response plans, we cannot guarantee that these measures will be effective or adequate to respond to damage, disruption or shut-down circumstances. In addition, we have in the past offered and continue to offer certain services and products, including pumps, controllers and meters, that are digitally-enabled or that connect to and are part of the “Internet of Things” (IoT), and are used by our customers and other third parties for operational purposes or to collect data. Cybersecurity attacks may target hardware, software and information installed, stored or transmitted by our products after they have been purchased and incorporated into customers and other third parties’ products, facilities or infrastructure, including critical infrastructure applications. While we attempt to provide security measures to safeguard our products and services from cyber threats, the potential for an attack remains. In addition, our customers may continue to use digitally-enabled products that were designed, manufactured and sold by us at a time when current security features were not available. A successful attack may result in the misappropriation, destruction, unauthorized access to or disclosure of customers or other third parties' confidential information, damage or disruption to customer or third parties’ operations, potentially with personal health and safety risks, recall of our products or increased costs for security and remediation, as well as damage to our brand reputation. Like many multinational companies, we, and some third parties upon which we rely, have experienced cybersecurity attacks on information technology networks and systems, products and services in the past and may experience them in the future, likely with more frequency and involving a broader range of devices and modes of attack. To date, none have resulted in any material adverse impact to our business, operations, products, services or customers. We have adopted measures designed to mitigate potential risks associated with cybersecurity threats, breaches or other disruptions or damage to our information technology networks and systems, products and services but the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of such disruptions and threats could impact our business, operations, products and services. Disruption to information technology and communications networks on which we rely, or an attack on our products and services, could interfere with our operations, disrupt our supply chain and service to our customers, interrupt production and shipments, result in theft or compromise of our and our customers’ intellectual property and trade secrets, damage employee, customer and business partner relationships, negatively impact our reputation, result in legal claims and proceedings or regulatory enforcement actions, and increase our costs for security and remediation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Although we continue to assess these risks, implement measures to mitigate these risks and perform business continuity and disaster recovery planning, we cannot be sure that cybersecurity attacks or other interruptions with material adverse effects will not occur, or that our business continuity and disaster recovery efforts will be effective and adequate. Lack of or delay in availability of products, parts, raw materials and energy from our supply chain or the inability of suppliers to meet delivery and other requirements, could adversely affect our business. Our business relies on a large and complex network of suppliers (and their suppliers), including contract manufacturing, commodity markets and freight and logistics providers, to secure and ship finished goods and raw materials, parts, electronic components and other components that are used in our products. We expect that our reliance on, and the complexity of, the supply chain will continue to increase. Parts and raw materials commonly used in our products include electronic components, including semiconductors, motors, fabricated parts, castings, magnets, bearings, seals, batteries, and PCBs, as well as commodities, including steel, brass, nickel, copper, 21 aluminum and plastics. We are exposed to the availability of these parts, components, materials and finished goods, which throughout 2022 have been and may in the future be subject to delay, curtailment or change due to, among other things, macroeconomic factors including supply and demand dynamics, labor shortages, changes in the strategy or production planning of suppliers including decisions to exit production of key components upon which we rely, interruptions in suppliers' production, labor disputes, the impaired financial condition of a particular supplier, suppliers’ capacity allocations to other purchasers, changes in trade agreements and trade protection measures including tariffs, exchange rates and prevailing price levels, ability to meet regulatory requirements, weather emergencies and associated effects of climate change, the ongoing effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, or other public health crises, or threatened or actual terrorism, armed conflict, or war, including the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine. In addition, any threatened or actual escalation of the Russia-Ukraine conflict, including impacts such as disruption or increased cost of energy supply in Europe, could delay or interrupt our supplies from suppliers of energy intensive materials, such as steel, glass and plastics, among others. We have also experienced, and continue to experience, increased freight and logistics costs, delivery delays related to port congestion and other logistics-related challenges. Although we have insurance, we cannot be certain that this insurance coverage will continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost or will be adequate to cover any or all aspects of supply chain disruptions. Some of our key components are available only from a sole or single source supplier or a limited group of suppliers and so we are subject to supply and pricing risk. In addition, if a sole or single source supplier were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply a key component to us, it could adversely affect our product sales and operating results. In addition, as a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and broader global market supply and demand dynamics, we have experienced and may continue to experience shortages, capacity constraints and delays with respect to the supply of components, including electronic components (in particular, chips), and other parts and raw materials. We have and continue to take measures, including with respect to buffer stock, the use of alternative suppliers and re-design of certain products, to mitigate the impacts of the ongoing supply chain, freight and logistics issues. However, if these shortages and disruptions continue, if additional disruptions occur (including related to the aforementioned risk of disruption in the global semiconductor industry due to China-Taiwan geopolitical issues), or if our efforts to mitigate these shortages and disruptions are insufficient or unsuccessful, we may be unable to, or delayed in our ability to execute on our backlog, fill new customer orders or timely deliver products to our customers and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. A material disruption to any of our facilities or operations, or that of third parties upon which we rely, may adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our facilities and operations rely on a complex and highly reactive global supply chain, including suppliers (and their suppliers), some of which are a single-or sole-source, distributors, contract manufacturers, utilities providers, and freight and logistics providers. In addition, we rely on certain third parties to supply critical business processes and activities, including in the areas of Finance, Human Resources, Procurement, Travel and Information Technology. Our facilities and operations and those of certain third parties on which we rely, have experienced, and may in the future experience, disruptions or delays as a result of an actual or threatened event or circumstance, including due to a significant equipment, technological or system failure, natural disaster, weather event, effects of climate change, power, energy curtailment or outage, water or communications outage, fire, explosion, critical supply chain failure, terrorism, cybersecurity attack, political disruption, the effects of COVID-19, outbreak of an epidemic, pandemic or other public health crisis, insurrection, armed conflict or war, labor dispute, work stoppage or slowdown, technology failure, financial viability or other reason. In addition, our facilities or that of third parties upon which we rely operate in certain circumstances with equipment that may be unique and difficult to replace or involve long lead times for replacement. A significant disruption to any of our facilities or operations, or that of third parties upon which we rely, could cause material adverse impacts to our financial performance, operations and business, including an inability to meet customer demand or contractual commitments, increased costs, and reduced sales, and could impact our business processes and activities, including our ability to timely report financial results. Any interruption in capability may be lengthy and have lasting effects, require a significant amount of management and other employees' time and focus, and require us to make substantial expenditures to mitigate the situation, which could negatively affect our operations, business processes and activities, profitability, financial condition and reputation. Any recovery under our insurance policies may not offset the lost sales, increased costs, or longer term loss of suppliers, sales or customers that we may experience as a result of a disruption. Although we continue to assess these risks, implement mitigation plans and perform business continuity and disaster recovery planning, we cannot be sure that interruptions with material adverse effects on our operational and financial performance will not occur. 22 Failure to retain our existing senior management, engineering, technology, sales, services and other key talents or the inability to attract new qualified and diverse talent could negatively impact our business. Our success has depended, and will continue to depend on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified and diverse employees in senior management positions, and in strategic or core competencies, including engineering, innovation, digital technologies, commercial excellence, service, and project management, as well as general production-related talent. The market for highly-skilled talent, leaders and labor in our industry remains highly competitive. As a result, our success in attracting and retaining employees, particularly in the areas of services, digital technologies, innovation and data science, has depended, and will continue to depend on our ability to offer attractive career growth opportunities, work arrangements, compensation, and benefits, and also policies and ways of working that support employee wellbeing. In addition, continuing to evolve our culture, which includes advancing diversity, equity and inclusion, is critical to attracting and retaining talent needed to execute our strategy, while also driving innovation, remaining competitive and creating long-term value. We also need to continue to develop qualified talent to support business growth and robust succession plans, both of which are critical to our long-term success. A failure to attract or retain highly engaged and skilled talent and labor could adversely affect our ability to meet and exceed the needs of our customers, operate and grow our business and execute our strategy. Defects, unanticipated use or inadequate disclosures with respect to our products could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial condition and results of operations. Defects, inadequacies or quality issues in the manufacture, design, software, security or service of our products (including finished goods, parts or components that we source from third parties), unanticipated use, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of our products could result in product safety, product security, regulatory or environmental risks, including personal injury, death, property or environmental damage. These events could also lead to recalls, safety or security alerts relating to our products, result in the removal of a product from the market and/or result in warranty or liability claims against us. Although we have liability insurance, we cannot be certain that this insurance coverage will continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost or will be adequate to cover any or all aspects of liability claims. Manufacturing, design, software, security or service defects or inadequacies may also result in contractual damages against us, warranty expenses or issuance of credits, which could impact our profitability. Recalls, removals, and warranty, liability and quality claims can result in significant costs, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our restructuring and realignment plans or our restructuring and realignment may adversely affect our business. In 2022 and recent prior fiscal years, we initiated restructuring and realignment plans in an effort to optimize our cost structure, improve our operational efficiency and effectiveness, strengthen our competitive positioning and better serve our customers. Additionally, in 2020, in response to the business and economic conditions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, we initiated additional restructuring and realignment activity. We are also engaged in a multi-year effort to transform many of our support functions and related technologies, including Finance, Human Resources and Procurement. Challenges with the enabling technologies and delays in implementing planned restructuring and realignment activities have delayed the realization of some of the expected operational and financial benefits from such actions. We may not be able to obtain all of the cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated in connection with our restructuring and realignment plans. Additionally, as a result of these plans, we may experience a loss of continuity or, accumulated knowledge or inefficiencies during transitional periods and ongoing operations. Realignment and restructuring require a significant amount of management and other employees' time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. The successful implementation and execution of our restructuring and realignment actions are critical to achieving our expected cost savings, as well as effectively competing in the marketplace and positioning us for future growth. Factors that may impede a successful implementation and execution include the retention of key employees, the impact of regulatory matters including tax, matters involving certain third-party service providers selected to assist us, including staffing, technology, and compliance of service providers with our internal controls over financial reporting, and adverse economic market conditions. If our restructuring and realignment actions are not executed successfully, it could have material adverse impacts on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, our competitive position, business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. The execution of our strategy includes acquisitions, which we may be unable to successfully execute or effectively integrate. 23 To execute our growth strategy, we plan to continue to pursue the acquisition of companies, assets, technologies, product lines and customer channels that complement or expand our existing business or improve our competitive position. We may not be able to complete acquisitions with favorable terms or timing, or at all, or obtain financing that may be needed to consummate acquisitions. In addition, our results of operations may be adversely impacted by: (i) the failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses into our operations, technology and financial and other systems, (ii) the failure of acquired businesses to meet or exceed expected returns, which in the past has led to, and in the future may lead to, accounting impairments, (iii) the discovery of unanticipated liabilities, labor relations difficulties, cybersecurity concerns, control or compliance issues, or other issues for which we lack contractual protections, insurance or indemnities. Acquisitions involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: diversion of management’s attention from existing businesses and operations; insufficient internal controls over financial or compliance activities or financial reporting; the failure to realize expected synergies; the assumption of new material risks associated with the acquired businesses; and the loss of key employees of the acquired businesses. Failure to successfully execute our growth strategy via acquisitions and successfully integrate these acquisitions could adversely affect our competitive position, business, financial condition or results of operations. A significant portion of our products and offerings in our Measurement & Control Solutions segment are affected by the availability, regulation of and interference with radio spectrum that we use. A significant portion of the offerings in our Measurement & Control Solutions segment use radio spectrum, which is subject to government regulation. To the extent we introduce new products designed for use in the U.S. or another country, such products may require significant modification or redesign in order to meet frequency requirements and other regulatory specifications. Limitations on frequency availability or the cost of making necessary modifications may preclude us from selling our products in certain countries. The regulations that govern our use of radio spectrum may change, which may require us to modify our products or seek new partnerships, either directly or due to interference caused by new consumer products allowed under the regulations. In addition, we may not be able to secure suitable partners for co-development of products.The inability to modify our products to meet such requirements, the possible delays in completing or the cost of such modifications could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In the U.S., our products are primarily designed to use FCC-licensed spectrum in the 900MHz range. If the FCC does not renew our existing spectrum licenses, or materially changes regulations affecting the use of these licenses, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, there may be insufficient available frequencies in some markets to sustain or develop our planned operations at a commercially feasible price or at all. Outside the U.S., certain of our products require the use of radio frequency and are subject to regulations. In some jurisdictions, radio station licenses may be granted for a fixed term and must be periodically renewed. Our advanced and smart metering systems offerings transmit to (and receive information from, if applicable) handheld, mobile, or fixed network reading devices in licensed bands made available to us through strategic partnerships and are reliant to some extent on the licensed spectrum continuing to be available through our partners or our customers. We may be unable to find partners or customers that have access to sufficient frequencies in some markets to sustain or develop our planned operations, or to find partners or customers that have access to sufficient frequencies in the relevant markets at a commercially feasible price or at all. Weather conditions, including the effects of climate change and associated efforts by governmental or regulatory authorities to mitigate such effects, may cause volatility in our served markets, and may affect our businesses, operations and financial results. Globally, the frequency and severity of weather events due to the effects of climate change is increasing. The unpredictable nature of weather events and related conditions, including heavy flooding, water stress due to prolonged droughts, and fluctuations in temperatures or weather patterns, including as a result of climate change, can positively or negatively impact portions of our business. For example, heavy flooding and rain events attributable to the effects of global climate change may increase customer demand for some of our solutions that help manage water and stormwater overflows or remove and transfer excess or unwanted water. Prolonged drought conditions may increase demand for our pumping technology used in agriculture and turf irrigation applications. Demand for water reuse applications, including those provided by our treatment business, may also increase as communities look to address water scarcity challenges due to the effects of climate change. In addition, fluctuations in temperatures result in varying levels of demand for our products used in residential and commercial hydronic applications, where homes and buildings use circulating water to heat and cool living spaces. Significant fluctuations in these weather conditions and climate changes can therefore result in volatility in our financial results. 24 Severe weather events and other effects of climate change have also caused, and may in the future cause, disruptions to our facilities and operations, as well as those of our customers and suppliers. In 2021, a physical risk analysis using the Task Force on Climate Related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”) framework indicated that certain of our facilities are at a moderate risk for exposure to water stress, coldwave and wildfire impacts due to the effects of climate change. While we continue to assess these risks, implement mitigation plans and perform business continuity and disaster recovery planning, we cannot be sure that disruptions with material adverse effects will not occur. Governments may implement emissions trading schemes, carbon taxes, fuel taxes and other policies to reduce the impacts of climate change that could impact our business and financial results. The timing, scope and effect of governments’ implementation of carbon pricing and taxes are uncertain, but could significantly increase our expenses in the future and therefore have material adverse impacts on our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and market price of our common stock. Our commitments, goals, targets, objectives and initiatives related to sustainability, and our public statements and disclosures regarding them, expose us to numerous risks. We have developed, and will continue to establish, goals, targets, and other objectives related to sustainability matters, including our sustainability goals and commitments to Science-Based Targets aligned to limiting global temperature increase to 1.5°C above pre-industrial level, in line with the Paris Agreement, by 2030 and net zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3) before 2050. Achieving these goals and commitments will require evolving our business, making capital investments and developing technologies that might not currently exist. We might incur additional expense or be required to recognize impairment charges in connection with our efforts. These commitments, goals, targets and other objectives reflect our current plans and there is no guarantee that they will be achieved. Our efforts to research, establish, accomplish, and accurately report on these commitments, goals, targets and objectives expose us to operational, reputational, financial, legal, and other risks. Our ability to achieve any stated commitment, goal, target, or objective is subject to factors and conditions, many of which are outside of our control, including the pace of changes in technology, the availability of requisite financing, and the availability of suppliers that can meet our sustainability and other standards. Our business may face increased scrutiny from the investment community, regulators, media and other stakeholders related to our sustainability activities, including our commitments, goals, targets and objectives, and our methodologies and timelines for pursuing them. We are subject to increasing regulatory requirements around sustainability-related disclosures, including significant anticipated rulemaking by the SEC, which may continue to evolve. Complying with regulators’ disclosure requirements may impose substantial additional costs and require additional resources, including with respect to third-party attestation, to enable the capture, analysis and audit of appropriate data. Any actual or alleged failure to comply with regulatory requirements could result in fines, penalties and civil liabilities, and damage to our reputation. Furthermore, if our sustainability reporting and practices do not meet investor, regulator or other stakeholders’ expectations, standards and requirements, our reputation, ability to attract or retain employees, and attractiveness as an investment, business partner or acquiror could be negatively impacted. Similarly, our failure or perceived failure to pursue or fulfill our sustainability commitments, goals, targets, and objectives, to comply with ethical, environmental, or other standards, regulations, or expectations, or to comply with reporting requirements and standards with respect to these matters, within the timelines we announce, or at all, could have operational, reputational, financial and legal impacts. Risks Related to Financial and Tax Our business is subject to foreign currency exchange rates fluctuations. Sales outside of the U.S. for the year ended December 31, 2022 accounted for approximately 53% of our net sales. We also have significant operations in various locations outside of the U.S. Our principal currency exposures for which we enter into cash flow hedges relate to the Euro, Swedish Krona, British Pound, Canadian Dollar, Australian Dollar, and Polish Zloty . Changes in the value of currencies of the countries in which we do business relative to the value of the U.S. Dollar or Euro could affect our ability to sell products competitively and control our cost structure, which has had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Additionally, we are subject to foreign exchange translation risk due to changes in the value of foreign currencies in relation to our reporting currency, the U.S. Dollar. The translation risk is primarily concentrated in the exchange rate between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro, Chinese Yuan, British Pound, Canadian Dollar, Australian Dollar, Swedish Krona and Indian Rupee. As the U.S. Dollar fluctuates against other currencies in which we transact business, revenue and income may be impacted. Strengthening of the U.S. Dollar relative to the Euro and the currencies of the other countries in which we do business, has materially and adversely affected, and could in the future materially and adversely affect, our sales growth and profitability in future periods. Refer to 25 Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk" for additional information on foreign exchange risk. Our financial results can be difficult to predict. Our business is impacted by a substantial amount of short cycle and book-and-bill business, which we have limited insight into, particularly for the business that we transact through our significant distribution network. Our businesses, including that of our Measurement & Control Solutions segment, are also impacted by our long-cycle business, including large projects, which could be unexpectedly cancelled, or whose timing can change based upon customer requirements due to a number of factors affecting the project that are beyond our knowledge or control, such as funding, readiness of the project and regulatory approvals. We rely on a complex global supply chain, which has been subject to dynamic conditions, volatility, unexpected changes and disruptions due to international conditions, including as a result of the war between Russia and Ukraine, the COVID-19 pandemic and macroeconomic conditions, including high inflation. These supply chain challenges have affected, and may continue to affect, our cost structure, production and ability to timely fill customer orders. We cannot predict when, or if, these conditions will ease or subside in the future. Accordingly, our financial results for any given period have been and will continue to be difficult to predict. We may incur additional impairment charges for our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets which would negatively impact our operating results. We have a significant amount of goodwill and purchased intangible assets on our balance sheet as a result of acquisitions. As of December 31, 2022, the net carrying value of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled approximately $3 billion. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we evaluate these assets for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if changes in events or circumstances indicate it is more likely than not that a potential impairment could exist. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business or our customers’ business, inability to effectively integrate or scale acquired businesses, increases in cost of capital, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, failure of the FCC to renew radio spectrum licenses, and divestitures and market capitalization declines may cause impairment of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets. For example, in 2020 we recorded goodwill impairment charges $58 million within our Measurement & Control Solutions segment primarily related to the performance of the business of the Pure Technologies Ltd. acquisition ("Pure") (as detailed in Note 11, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”). We did not record goodwill impairment charges within our Measurement & Control Solutions segment in 2021 or 2022. Material impairment charges have in the past and could in the future adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in our effective tax rates and tax expenses may adversely affect our financial results. We sell our products in approximately 150 countries and 53% of our revenue was generated outside the U.S. for the year ended December 31, 2022. Given the global nature of our business, a number of factors may increase our effective tax rates and tax expense, including: • the geographic mix of jurisdictions in which profits are earned and taxed; • the statutory tax rates and tax laws in jurisdictions in which we conduct business; • the resolution of tax issues arising from tax examinations by various tax authorities; and • the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. Additionally, tax laws, regulations, and administrative practices in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change, with or without notice, due to economic, political, and other conditions, and significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. The recent agreement by countries in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to implement additional legislative changes increases the uncertainty of future income tax positions, and such changes may result in additional tax expense and effective tax rate volatility. Our businesses are regularly examined by various tax authorities throughout the world and the resolutions of these examinations do not typically have a significant impact on our effective tax rates and tax expenses, but they could. For example, following an examination regarding aspects of the reorganization of our European business that occurred in 2013, the Swedish tax authority issued a tax assessment to Xylem’s Swedish subsidiary in 2019, which we are appealing as further described in Note 6, “Income Taxes.” This examination as well as other examinations can result in increased tax assessments, and settlement or litigation about the assessments and final resolution could be unfavorable to Xylem. We regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, including unrecognized tax benefits; however, developments in an audit or litigation could materially and adversely affect us. Although we 26 believe our tax estimates and accruals are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different than the treatment reflected in its historical income tax provisions, accruals and unrecognized tax benefits, which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. Our pension and other defined benefit plans are subject to financial market risks that could adversely impact our earnings, financial condition and cash flows in future periods. Certain current and retired employees are covered by pension and other defined benefit plans (collectively, “post-retirement benefit plans”). We make contributions to fund our post-retirement benefit plans when we consider it necessary or advantageous to do so. Significant changes in market interest rates, decreases in fair value of or investment losses on plan assets, changes in discount rates, or changes in minimum funding requirements established by governments, taxing authorities or other agreements, could increase our funding obligations and adversely impact our earnings, financial condition and cash flows in future periods. In addition, the cost of our post-retirement benefit plans is incurred over long periods of time and involves factors that can be volatile and unpredictable, including rates of return on plan assets, discount rates used to calculate liabilities and expenses, change in laws and regulatory actions, and changes in actuarial experience and assumptions, which could adversely impact our earnings, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our debt obligations may adversely affect our business and our ability to meet our obligations and pay dividends. As of December 31, 2022, our total outstanding indebtedness was $1,880 million as described under “Liquidity and Capital Resources" and we may incur additional debt in the future. Our current or future indebtedness could have adverse consequences to us and our investors, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing or borrow additional funds; • reducing or eliminating our ability to pay future dividends or repurchase our common stock; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to make principal and interest payments; • reducing the cash flows available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other investments to grow our business; • increasing the amount of interest expense that we must pay if future borrowings are at variable interest rates, which, as interest rates increase, would result in higher interest expense; and • increasing the risk of a future credit rating downgrade, which could increase future debt costs and limit the availability of debt financing. In addition, there can be no assurance that future borrowings or equity financing will be available to us on favorable terms or at all for the payment or refinancing of our indebtedness. The terms of any future debt indentures, including those related to green financing, may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. Our ability to make scheduled principal payments of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend on our future cash flows from operations, which may not be sufficient or may be affected by factors beyond our control. If we are unable to service our indebtedness, our business, financial condition, results of operations and share price could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Failure to comply with laws, regulations and policies, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, other applicable anti-corruption laws, trade regulations, and data privacy and security laws, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. Given our global operations, we are subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. and non-U.S. laws, regulations and policies, including laws and regulations related to anti-corruption, trade including export and import compliance, anti-trust and money laundering. Our policies mandate compliance with these laws and regulations. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA"), the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to 27 government officials or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We operate in many parts of the world that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-corruption laws may conflict with local business customs and practices. We cannot guarantee that our internal controls, policies and procedures will always prevent and protect us from improper conduct of our employees or business partners. In the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our employees or business partners have or may have violated applicable laws, regulations or policies, including anti-corruption laws, we are required to investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management. Any such violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties, termination of relationships with business partners and curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, and as a result might materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. Additionally, to conduct our operations, we regularly move data across borders, and consequently we are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations regarding data privacy, data protection and data security, including the California Consumer Protection Act, the EU's GDPR and PIPL. The scope of the laws that may be applicable to us is evolving, often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly with respect to foreign laws. GDPR greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of EU law and adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, including the enforcement of data subject rights, enhanced security requirements, obligations to guarantee EU data subject rights are not compromised in countries outside the EU, and public disclosure of significant data breaches. Other countries, such as China with its PIPL, have enacted or are enacting data localization and security laws that require data to stay within their borders. All of these evolving legal and operational requirements impose significant costs of compliance that are likely to increase over time. In addition, any such violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions and/or civil penalties, damage to our reputation and might materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We face risks related to legal and regulatory proceedings. We are subject to various laws, regulations and other requirements of government authorities in the U.S. and foreign countries, any violation of which could potentially create substantial liability for us and damage our reputation. Changes in laws, ordinances, regulations or other government policies, the nature, timing, and effect of which are uncertain, may significantly increase our expenses and liabilities. From time to time, we are involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that are incidental to the operation of our businesses (or the business operations of previously owned entities). These proceedings may seek remedies relating to environmental matters, tax, intellectual property, acquisitions or divestitures, product liability, property damage, personal injury, privacy, employment, labor and pensions, government contract issues and commercial or contractual disputes. Our continued transition to connected and digital technologies and solutions has increased our exposure to intellectual property litigation and we expect that this risk will continue to increase as we execute on our innovation and technology priorities. It is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of claims, investigations, regulatory proceedings and lawsuits, and we could in the future incur judgments, fines or penalties or enter into settlements and claims that could have an adverse effect on our reputation, our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we may be required to change or cease operations at one or more facilities if a regulatory agency determines that we have failed to comply with laws, regulations or orders applicable to our business. The global and diverse nature of our operations, coupled with the increase in regulation and enforcement in many regions of the globe, means that legal and compliance risks will continue to exist and additional legal and regulatory proceedings and other contingencies, the outcome of which cannot be predicted with certainty, will arise from time to time. In addition, subsequent developments in legal and regulatory proceedings may affect our assessments and estimates of loss contingencies recorded as a reserve and require us to make payments in excess of our reserves, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 28 Infringement or expiration of our intellectual property rights, or allegations that we have infringed upon the intellectual property rights of third parties could negatively affect us. We own numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property and licenses to intellectual property owned by others, that are important to our business. Our intellectual property rights may provide us with competitive advantage because they may help us differentiate our technologies, products and services, including our growing portfolio of data analytics and digitally-enabled offerings. However, our current or future intellectual property rights may not be sufficiently broad or may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, misappropriated, independently developed, or designed-around, particularly given our operations in countries where laws governing intellectual property rights are not highly developed, protected or enforced. Our failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights that convey competitive advantage, adequately protect our intellectual property, or detect or prevent circumvention, misappropriation or unauthorized use of such property, as well as the cost of enforcing our intellectual property rights, could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties alleging intellectual property infringement or misappropriation. Any dispute or litigation regarding intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming to defend due to the complexity and uncertainty of intellectual property litigation. We may not be successful in asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim of infringement or misappropriation. In addition, as a result of such claims of infringement or misappropriation, we could lose our rights to use critical technology, be unable to license critical technology or sell critical products and services, be required to pay substantial damages or license fees with respect to the use of third-party intellectual property rights, or be required to redesign our products at substantial cost, any of which could adversely impact our competitive position, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we successfully defend against claims of infringement or misappropriation, we may incur significant costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Developments in, and compliance with, current and future environmental and climate change laws and regulations could impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business, operations, and product and service offerings are subject to and affected by many U.S. federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those enacted in response to climate change concerns. Increasing public and governmental awareness and concern regarding the effects of climate change has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions and will likely result in further environmental and climate change laws and regulations. Compliance with existing laws and regulations currently requires, and compliance with future laws is expected to continue to require, increasing research and development, operating and capital expenditures, including with respect to the design or re-design of our products in order to conform to changing environmental standards and regulations, including with respect to emissions and efficiency, which could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, environmental laws and regulations may authorize substantial fines and criminal sanctions as well as facility shutdowns to address violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit emissions or discharges. We also incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with current environmental laws and regulations. Developments such as the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of laws and regulations, violations by us of such laws and regulations, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination conditions, litigation involving environmental impacts, our inability to recover costs associated with any such developments, or financial insolvency of other responsible parties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to the Proposed Acquisition of Evoqua We may not realize some or all the expected benefits and synergies from our proposed acquisition of Evoqua. On January 23, 2023, we announced that we entered into a definitive merger agreement under which we will acquire Evoqua. While we and Evoqua will continue to operate independently until the completion of the acquisition, the success of the acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from successfully combining our and Evoqua’s businesses. We plan on devoting substantial management attention and resources to integrating our and Evoqua’s business practices and operations so that we can fully realize the anticipated benefits and synergies of the acquisition. Nonetheless, difficulties may arise during the integration process that could result in the failure to achieve the synergies that we anticipate, including the loss of key talent that may be difficult to replace, the disruption of each company’s ongoing business or inconsistencies in each company’s standards, 29 controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the combined company’s ability to maintain relationships with customers, partners, suppliers or creditors. As a result, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully within the expected timeframe or at all, may take longer to realize, or may cost more than expected, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, as well as adversely impact the stock price of the combined company. In addition, at times, the attention of certain members of each company’s management and each company’s resources may be focused on completion of the merger and the integration of the businesses of the two companies, which may divert attention from day-to-day business operations and disrupt each company’s ongoing business, as well as the business of the combined company. Furthermore, we and Evoqua could potentially become targets of securities class actions or derivative lawsuits in connection with the acquisition, which could result in diversion of management’s attention and resources and substantial costs, and could delay or prevent the acquisition from being completed. Failure to complete our proposed acquisition of Evoqua could negatively impact our reputation, stock price and our future business and financial results. Our obligations and the obligations of Evoqua to complete the merger are subject to satisfaction or waiver of a number of conditions. There can be no assurance that the conditions to completion of the acquisition will be satisfied or waived or that the acquisition will be completed. If the acquisition is not consummated for any reason, we may receive negative reactions from our shareholders, suppliers, customers, regulators and employees, including damage to our reputation. We may be subjected to various material risks, including the possibility that the price of our common stock and other securities may decline to the extent that current market prices reflect a market assumption that the acquisition will be completed. Also, in the event of a termination of the merger agreement under certain specified circumstances, we would be required to reimburse expenses of Evoqua or pay Evoqua a termination fee of up to $325 million. We could also be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the merger or to specifically enforce our obligation to perform our obligations under the merger agreement. In addition, the merger agreement places certain restrictions on the conduct of our businesses prior to completion of the merger, and such restrictions, the waiver of which is subject to a written consent of Evoqua in advance, may prevent us from making certain acquisitions or taking certain other specified actions during the pendency of the merger that we would have made or taken if these restrictions were not in place. If any of these risks materialize, they may materially and adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition, ratings, stock prices and/or bond prices. If our pending acquisition of Evoqua is consummated, our shareholders’ ownership percentage will be diluted, and the combined company’s earnings per share may decrease. If the proposed acquisition is consummated, we will issue to Evoqua stockholders shares of our common stock. As a result of the issuance of these shares, our shareholders will own a smaller percentage of the combined company after the acquisition and will therefore have a reduced voting interest after the acquisition. In addition, the market value of the combined company’s common stock may also decrease due to the additional transaction and integration-related costs or other factors beyond our control. All of these factors could cause dilution of the combined company’s earnings per share, or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the acquisition, which could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. The acquisition and integration of Evoqua may result in additional costs and expenses. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur a number of non-recurring costs, expenses and fees for professional services and other transaction-related costs in connection with the proposed acquisition and integration of Evoqua, whether or not the acquisition is completed. We may also incur unanticipated accounting and other costs in the integration of the businesses of Evoqua, which may lead to reserves in the future. Such costs could negatively impact our free cash flow, and the net benefit from efficiencies and synergies related to the integration of the businesses may not be realized in the near term or at all.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. This discussion summarizes the significant factors affecting our results of operations and the financial condition of our business. Except as otherwise indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, “Xylem,” “we,” “us,” “our” and “the Company” refer to Xylem Inc. and its subsidiaries. This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses 2022 and 2021 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2022 and 2021. Discussions of 2020 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2021 and 2020 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021. Overview Xylem is a leading global water technology company. We design, manufacture and service highly engineered products and solutions ranging across a wide variety of critical applications in utility, industrial, residential and commercial building services settings. Our broad portfolio of solutions addresses customer needs across the water cycle, from the delivery, measurement and use of drinking water to the collection, test, treatment and analysis of wastewater to the return of water to the environment. Our product and service offerings are organized into three reportable segments that are aligned around the critical market applications they provide: Water Infrastructure, Applied Water and Measurement & Control Solutions. • Water Infrastructure serves the water infrastructure sector with pump systems that transport water from aquifers, lakes, rivers and seas; with filtration, ultraviolet and ozone systems that provide treatment, making the water fit to use; and pumping solutions that move the wastewater and storm water to treatment facilities where our mixers, biological treatment, monitoring and control systems provide the primary functions in the treatment process. We also provide sales and rental of specialty dewatering pumps and related equipment and services. Additionally, our offerings use monitoring and control, smart and connected technologies to allow for remote monitoring of performance and enable products to self-optimize pump operations maximizing energy efficiency and minimizing unplanned downtime and maintenance for our customers. In the Water Infrastructure segment, we provide the majority of our sales directly to customers along with strong applications expertise, while the remaining amount is through distribution partners. • Applied Water serves the water usage applications sector with water pressure boosting systems for heating, ventilation and air conditioning, and for fire protection systems to the residential and commercial building services markets. In addition, our pumps, heat exchangers and controls provide cooling to power plants and manufacturing facilities, circulation for food and beverage processing, as well as boosting systems for agricultural irrigation. In the Applied Water segment, we provide the majority of our sales through long-standing relationships with many of the leading independent distributors in the markets we serve, with the remainder going directly to customers. • Measurement & Control Solutions primarily serves the utility infrastructure solutions and services sector by delivering communications, smart metering, measurement and control technologies and critical infrastructure technologies that allow customers to more effectively use their distribution networks for the delivery, monitoring and control of critical resources such as water, electricity and natural gas. We also provide analytical instrumentation used to measure and analyze water quality, flow and level in clean water, wastewater, and outdoor environments. Additionally, we offer software and services including cloud-based analytics, remote monitoring and data management, leak detection, condition assessment, asset management and pressure monitoring solutions. In the Measurement & Control Solutions segment, we generate our sales through a combination of long-standing relationships with leading distributors and dedicated channel partners as well as direct sales depending on the regional availability of distribution channels and the type of product. 38 COVID-19 Pandemic Update and Macroeconomic Conditions The global spread of COVID-19 has curtailed the movement of people, goods and services worldwide, including in many of the regions where we sell our products and services and conduct operations. This section summarizes the most significant impacts related to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic that we have experienced to date, and we have included additional details as applicable throughout other sections of this Annual Report. Given the magnitude and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and its economic consequences, it has become more difficult to distinguish specific aspects of our operational and financial performance that are most directly related to the pandemic from those more broadly influenced by ongoing macroeconomic, market and industry dynamics that may be, to varying degrees, related to the pandemic and its consequences. The COVID-19 pandemic, as well as broader global market supply and demand dynamics, have adversely affected, and are expected to continue to adversely affect, our supply chains. We have experienced, and expect to continue experiencing shortages in the supply of components, including electronics, particularly semiconductors ("chips"), parts and raw materials. To help mitigate the effects of these challenges and increase the resilience of our supply chain, we continue to enhance and augment our risk management activities, including supplier pulsing and redundancy. Additionally, we have and continue to take measures with respect to buffer stock, the use of alternative suppliers and redesign of certain products to mitigate the impacts of the ongoing supply chain, freight and logistics delays and bolster our access to electronics, parts and raw materials. We have also experienced, and continue to experience, increased inflation, freight, logistics, labor and overhead costs. The Company has taken specific actions to mitigate these inflationary headwinds, including pricing actions to pass cost increases through to customers and productivity efforts, including selective chip allocation, product redesigns, alternate sourcing options, and global procurement efforts. We have also initiated and plan to continue to initiate restructuring actions in 2023 to further optimize our cost structure. These supply chain issues have also impacted our delivery times to customers. To some extent, our mitigation strategies have alleviated these issues but our lead times continue to be impacted to varying degrees. If these issues continue, they could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Many of our offices globally remain in a substantially remote work from home or hybrid status, with no material disruption to operations, financial reporting systems, internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures. The severity, magnitude and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and its economic consequences are uncertain, and the pandemic’s ongoing and future impacts on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and stock price remain uncertain and difficult to predict. Risks related to the impacts of COVID-19 as well as our supply chain are described in further detail under "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in the Company's 2022 Annual Report. Evoqua Acquisition On January 23, 2023, Xylem entered into a definitive agreement under which Xylem will acquire Evoqua, a leader in mission-critical water treatment solutions and services, in an all-stock transaction that reflects an implied enterprise value of approximately $7.5 billion. The transaction, which is anticipated to close in mid-2023, is subject to approval by shareholders of Xylem and Evoqua, the receipt of required regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. Evoqua, a leader in North America water treatment, complements Xylem’s distinctive portfolio of solutions with advanced water and wastewater treatment capabilities, a powerful and extensive network of service professionals and access to a number of attractive industrial markets with resilient, recurring revenue streams. Key Performance Indicators and Non-GAAP Measures Management reviews key performance indicators including revenue, gross margins, segment operating income and operating income margins, free cash flow, orders growth, working capital and backlog, among others. In addition, we consider certain non-GAAP (or "adjusted") measures to be useful to management and investors evaluating our operating performance for the periods presented, and to provide a tool for evaluating our ongoing operations, liquidity and management of assets. This information can assist investors in assessing our financial performance and measures our ability to generate capital for deployment among competing strategic alternatives and initiatives, including, but not limited to, dividends, acquisitions, share repurchases and debt repayment. Excluding revenue, 39 Xylem provides guidance only on a non-GAAP basis due to the inherent difficulty in forecasting certain amounts that would be included in GAAP earnings, such as discrete tax items, without unreasonable effort. These adjusted metrics are consistent with how management views our business and are used to make financial, operating and planning decisions. These metrics, however, are not measures of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered a substitute for revenue, operating income, net income, earnings per share (basic and diluted) or net cash from operating activities as determined in accordance with GAAP. We consider the following non-GAAP measures to be key performance indicators, as well as the related reconciling items to the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures reported by other companies. • "organic revenue" and "organic orders" defined as revenue and orders, respectively, excluding the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency translation and contributions from acquisitions and divestitures. Divestitures include sales or discontinuance of insignificant portions of our business that did not meet the criteria for classification as a discontinued operation. The period-over-period change resulting from foreign currency translation impacts is determined by translating current period and prior period activity using the same currency conversion rate. • "constant currency" defined as financial results adjusted for foreign currency translation impacts by translating current period and prior period activity using the same currency conversion rate. This approach is used for countries whose functional currency is not the U.S. Dollar. • "adjusted net income" and "adjusted earnings per share" defined as net income and earnings per share, respectively, adjusted to exclude restructuring and realignment costs, special charges, gain or loss from sale of businesses and tax-related special items, as applicable. A reconciliation of adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share is provided below. ▪ "adjusted operating expenses" and "adjusted gross profit" defined as operating expenses and gross profit, respectively, adjusted to exclude restructuring and realignment costs and special charges. ▪ "adjusted operating income" defined as operating income, adjusted to exclude restructuring and realignment costs and special charges, and "adjusted operating margin" defined as adjusted operating income divided by total revenue. ▪ “EBITDA” defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense, "EBITDA margin" defined as EBITDA divided by total revenue, "adjusted EBITDA" reflects the adjustment to EBITDA to exclude share-based compensation charges, restructuring and realignment costs, special charges and gain or loss from sale of businesses, and "adjusted EBITDA margin" defined as adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. 40 ▪ “realignment costs” defined as costs not included in restructuring costs that are incurred as part of actions taken to reposition our business, including items such as professional fees, severance, relocation, travel, facility set-up and other costs. ▪ “special charges" defined as costs incurred by the Company, such as acquisition and integration related costs, non-cash impairment charges and both operating and non-operating adjustments for costs related to the U.K. pension plan buy-out. ▪ "tax-related special items" defined as tax items, such as tax return versus tax provision adjustments, tax exam impacts, tax law change impacts, excess tax benefits/losses and other discrete tax adjustments. ▪ "free cash flow" defined as net cash from operating activities, as reported in the Statement of Cash Flows, less capital expenditures. Our definition of "free cash flow" does not consider certain non-discretionary cash payments, such as debt. The following table provides a reconciliation of free cash flow. Executive Summary Xylem reported revenue of $5,522 million for 2022, an increase of $327 million, or 6.3%, from $5,195 million reported in 2021. On a constant currency basis, revenue increased by $586 million, or 11.3%, during the year. The increase at constant currency was driven by an increase in organic revenue of $595 million reflecting strong organic growth in all end markets as well as across all major geographic regions. Operating income for 2022 was $622 million, reflecting an increase of $37 million, or 6.3%, compared to $585 million in 2021. Operating margin was 11.3% for both 2022 and 2021. Operating income for 2022 included an increase in special charges of $12 million and an unfavorable impact from increased restructuring and realignment costs of $12 million as compared to 2021 . Excluding the impact of these items, adjusted operating income was $672 million, with an adjusted operating margin of 12.2% in 2022 as compared to adjusted operating income of $611 million with an adjusted operating margin of 11.8% in 2021, an increase of 40 basis points. The increase in adjusted operating margin was primarily due to cost reductions from our productivity, restructuring and other cost saving initiatives, favorable volume and price realization. These impacts were partially offset by cost inflation and increased spending on strategic investments. Additional financial highlights for 2022 include the following: • Net income of $355 million, or $1.96 per diluted share, down 16.6% ($516 million or $2.85 per diluted share on an adjusted basis, up 14.5% from 2021) • Net cash provided by operating activities of $596 million and free cash flow of $388 million, up 18% from 2021 • Orders of $6,257 million, down 0.7% from $6,300 million in 2021 (up 4.0% on an organic basis) • Dividends paid to shareholders increased 7% in 2022. 2023 Business Outlook We anticipate total revenue growth in the range of 3% to 5% in 2023, with organic revenue growth anticipated to be in the range of 4% to 6%. The following is a summary of our 2022 organic revenue performance and the 2023 organic revenue outlook by end market. • Utilities revenue increased by approximately 10% for 2022 on an organic basis driven by strength in the U.S. and western Europe, partially offset by weakness in the emerging markets. For 2023, we expect organic revenue growth in the high-single-digits. On the clean water side, we expect improvements in chip supply through 2023 allowing for large deal deployments already secured in our backlog. Additionally, we can expect continued momentum for water quality products and increased demand for pipeline assessment services due to aging infrastructure. We expect wastewater utilities to remain focused on mission-critical applications in wastewater. Long-term capital expenditure outlook is strong due to aging infrastructure and the emerging markets’ continued advancement. 41 • Industrial revenue increased by approximately 13% for 2022 on an organic basis driven by strength across all major geographic regions. For 2023, we expect organic revenue growth in the low to mid-single-digit range. We expect to see continued robust growth in our dewatering business, driven by mining demand and strategic growth investments. We expect sustained demand in light industrial activity globally. • In the commercial market, organic revenue in 2022 increased by approximately 12%, led by growth in the U.S and western Europe. For 2023, we expect organic revenue growth in the low-single-digit range. We expect sustained demand for energy efficient related projects, particularly in Europe, and continued commercial development in the emerging markets, partially offset by moderation in new construction. • In the residential market, organic revenue increased by approximately 16% in 2022 driven primarily by strength in the U.S. as well as strength in the emerging markets. This market is primarily driven by replacement revenue serviced through our distribution network. For 2023, we expect a low-single-digit organic revenue decline due to normalizing demand in the U.S., partially offset by continued strength in emerging markets. We will continue to strategically execute restructuring and realignment actions in an effort to optimize our cost structure, improve our operational efficiency and effectiveness, strengthen our competitive positioning and better serve our customers. During 2022, we incurred $15 million and $19 million in restructuring and realignment costs, respectively. We realized approximately $3 million of net savings from our 2022 actions. As a result of our 2022 actions we expect to realize approximately $14 million of incremental net savings in 2023 and beyond. During 2023, we currently expect to incur between $25 million and $35 million in restructuring and realignment costs. We are strongly positioned to deliver on our 2023 commitments with commercial and operational momentum. We expect resilient demand due to our differentiated solutions addressing long-term secular trends in our largest end markets. Our 2023 commitments are supported by backlog execution, price realization, continued productivity actions to more than offset the impact of persistent inflation and potential headwinds from slowing demand in our most cyclical end markets. Beyond 2023, we remain on track to deliver our longer-term strategic and financial milestones. In addition to our organic 2023 commitments, we expect to successfully integrate the planned merger of Xylem and Evoqua with a closing estimated by mid-2023. 42 Results of Operations NM     Not Meaningful 2022 versus 2021 Revenue Revenue generated for 2022 was $5,522 million, an increase of $327 million, or 6.3%, compared to $5,195 million in 2021. On a constant currency basis, revenue grew 11.3% during 2022. The increase at constant currency was driven by an increase in organic revenue of $595 million, reflecting strong organic growth in all end markets as well as across all major geographic regions. The following table illustrates the impact from organic growth, recent acquisitions and divestitures, and foreign currency translation in relation to revenue during 2022: (a) Foreign currency translation impact for the year primarily due to the weakening in value of various currencies against the U.S. Dollar, the largest being the Euro, the British Pound, the Swedish Krona, the Canadian Dollar, the Australian Dollar and the Hungarian Forint. 43 Water Infrastructure Water Infrastructure revenue increased $117 million, or 5.2%, to $2,364 million in 2022 (11.8% increase on a constant currency basis) compared to 2021. Revenue was negatively impacted by $149 million of foreign currency translation, with the change at constant currency coming entirely from organic growth of $266 million. Organic growth for the year was driven by strength in both the utility and industrial end markets. The utilities end market experienced organic growth of $151 million led by strength in the U.S. driven by strong price realization, solid backlog execution, timing of projects as compared to prior year and continued strength in the construction sector. Western Europe also experienced strong organic growth due to good price realization, coupled with strong demand in utilities' capital spending. This increase was partially offset by weakness in the emerging markets, primarily due to the continued negative impacts from COVID lockdowns in China. The industrial end market had $115 million of organic growth across all major geographic regions, particularly in western Europe due to strong backlog execution and good price realization, and in the emerging markets, driven by mining projects and price realization in both Latin America and Africa. From an application perspective, organic revenue growth was driven by our transport applications. Transport experienced $247 million of revenue growth, almost half of which came from the dewatering application. All three of our major geographic regions contributed to the organic revenue growth in transport, led by the U.S. where we continued to experience strong price realization and had strong backlog coming into the year, followed by western Europe, which also experienced strong price realization coupled with strong demand from utility capital projects. We also experienced strong growth in the emerging markets driven by good price realization as well as robust mining demand in our dewatering business, particularity in Latin America and Africa, which more than offset declines in China due to COVID impacts. Organic revenue for the treatment application was $19 million for the year, as revenue growth from strong backlog execution in western Europe and the U.S. was partially offset by declines in emerging markets led by the continued negative COVID impacts on China. Applied Water Applied Water revenue increased $154 million, or 9.5%, in 2022 (13.6% increase on a constant currency basis) compared to 2021. Revenue was negatively impacted by $66 million of foreign currency translation, with the change at constant currency coming entirely from organic growth during the year of $220 million. Organic growth was driven by strength in all three end markets and across all major geographic regions. The organic revenue growth was led by strength in the industrial water application of $103 million, where in the U.S. we benefited from price realization and demand from OEM customers, in western Europe where we had healthy order intake across the sector, and in the emerging markets where we saw market recovery in China, despite continued COVID restrictions. Commercial building services grew $74 million organically during the year, particularly in the U.S. and western Europe, where we benefited from strong price realization and healthy market conditions. The residential building services application had $43 million of organic revenue growth during the period, primarily in the U.S. driven by price realization and healthy market conditions. Measurement & Control Solutions Measurement & Control Solutions revenue increased $56 million, or 4.2%, in 2022 (7.5% increase on a constant currency basis) compared to 2021. Revenue was negatively impacted by $44 million of foreign currency translation during the year, with the change at constant currency driven by an organic growth of $109 million, or 8.2%, and $9 million of reduced revenue related to divestiture impacts during the year. We experienced organic revenue growth across all three major geographic regions and in both of the segment's end markets for the year, driven by $91 million of organic growth in the utility end market, primarily in the U.S. as a result of the easing of electronic component shortage and strong price realization, followed by $18 million in the industrial end market driven by strong backlog execution in our test business. From an application perspective, organic revenue growth during the year consisted entirely of growth in the water application of $114 million, which was slightly offset by a decline in the energy applications of $5 million. Organic revenue growth in the water application was driven by strength in the U.S. as a result of easing of electronic component shortages and strong price realization. Backlog execution in the emerging markets and strength in our test and pipeline assessment services businesses in western Europe also contributed to the growth. Declines in the energy applications were driven by impacts from electronic component shortages in the U.S. during the first half of the year, more than offsetting modest growth in the second half of the year. 44 Orders/Backlog An order represents a legally enforceable, written document that includes the scope of work or services to be performed or equipment to be supplied to a customer, the corresponding price and the expected delivery date for the applicable products or services to be provided. An order often takes the form of a customer purchase order or a signed quote from a Xylem business. Orders received during 2022 decreased by $43 million, or 0.7%, to $6,257 million (3.7% increase on a constant currency basis). Order intake was negatively impacted by $279 million of foreign currency translation and $18 million of reduced orders related to divestiture impacts. The increase on a constant currency basis primarily consisted of organic order growth of $254 million, or 4.0%, over the prior year. The following table illustrates the impact from organic growth, recent acquisitions and divestitures, and foreign currency translation in relation to orders during 2022: (a) Foreign currency translation impact for the year primarily due to the weakening in value of various currencies against the U.S. Dollar, the largest being the Euro, the British Pound, the Swedish Krona, the Canadian Dollar, the Australian Dollar and the Hungarian Forint. Water Infrastructure Water Infrastructure segment orders increased $136 million, or 5.5%, to $2,607 million (12.2% increase on a constant currency basis). Order intake during the year was negatively impacted by $166 million of foreign currency translation. Organic orders increased during the year as strength in the transport applications came primarily from the U.S. where we benefited from strong market demand in water utilities, price realization and timing of large infrastructure projects. Western Europe also contributed to order growth from increased demand in utility capital projects and healthy market conditions. The treatment application saw a slight decrease in orders driven by the emerging markets due to declines in China related to COVID impacts, which more than offset modest growth in the U.S. and western Europe. Applied Water Applied Water segment orders decreased $66 million, or 3.5%, to $1,794 million (flat on a constant currency basis). Order intake during the year was negatively impacted by $68 million of foreign currency translation, making organic order growth relatively flat. Weakness in the U.S. from lapping strong demand in the prior year was partially offset by strength in the emerging markets and western Europe as a result of strong project orders and stocking by channel partners. Measurement & Control Solutions Measurement & Control Solutions segment orders decreased $113 million, or 5.7%, to $1,856 million (3.5% decrease on a constant currency basis). Order weakness during the year was negatively impacted by $45 million of foreign currency translation and reduced orders related to divestiture impacts of $18 million. The organic order decrease was $50 million, or (2.5)%. The order declines during the year are lapping strong organic order growth of 38% in the prior year. The order weakness for the year was driven by the water application due to the moderation of early orders to mitigate electronic component shortages and longer lead times that drove order growth in the prior year. This decrease was partially offset by strength in the energy applications, primarily driven by demand and advanced ordering to address electronic component shortages. 45 Backlog Backlog includes orders on hand as well as contractual customer agreements at the end of the period. Delivery schedules vary from customer to customer based on their requirements. Annual or multi-year contracts are subject to rescheduling and cancellation by customers due to the long-term nature of the contracts. As such, beginning total backlog, plus orders, minus revenues, will not equal ending total backlog due to contract adjustments, foreign currency fluctuations, and other factors. Typically, large projects require longer lead production cycles and deployment schedules and delays occur from time to time. Total backlog was $3,605 million at December 31, 2022 and $3,240 million at December 31, 2021, an increase of 11.3%. We anticipate that approximately 55% of our total backlog at December 31, 2022 will be recognized as revenue during 2023. Gross Margin Gross margin as a percentage of consolidated revenue decreased 30 basis points to 37.7% in 2022 as compared to 38.0% in 2021.The gross margin decline for the year included 730 basis points of negative impacts, driven by 580 basis points of cost inflation, as well as increased spending on strategic investments of 60 basis points and 40 basis points of inventory management costs. These negative impacts were partially offset by favorable impacts of 700 basis points, driven by 470 basis points of price realization and 230 basis points of productivity savings. Operating Expenses Selling, General and Administrative ("SG&A") Expenses SG&A expenses increased by $48 million (increase of 4.1%) to 22.2% of revenue in 2022, as compared to 22.7% of revenue in 2021. Revenue growth was higher than SG&A increases resulting in a lower SG&A as a percentage of sales. Cost increases were driven by increased investments in strategic growth initiatives of $59 million and inflation of $38 million, partially offset by $48 million of favorable currency impacts. Research and Development ("R&D") Expenses R&D expense was $206 million, or 3.7% of revenue, in 2022 which was fairly consistent with the 2021 expense of $204 million, or 3.9% of revenue. Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges Restructuring From time to time, the Company will incur costs related to restructuring actions in order to optimize our cost base and more strategically position itself. Restructuring charges were $15 million in 2022 as compared to $6 million in 2021. During 2022 we incurred these charges primarily as a continuation of our efforts to reposition our business to optimize our cost structure and improve our operational efficiency and effectiveness. The charges primarily included the reduction of headcount across all segments. In response to the changes in business and economic conditions arising as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, on June 2, 2020 management committed to a restructuring plan that includes actions across our businesses and functions globally. The plan was designed to support our long-term financial resilience and simplify our operations, strengthen our competitive positioning and better serve our customers. As a result of this action, during 2021, we recognized restructuring charges of $4 million and $2 million in our Water Infrastructure and Applied Water segments, respectively. These charges included reduction of headcount across both segments. Other less significant restructuring actions taken in 2021 resulted in $3 million of charges during 2021 and are included in the information presented below. 46 The following is a roll-forward of employee position eliminations associated with restructuring activities for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021: The following table presents the total costs expected to be incurred, the amount incurred in the period, and the cumulative costs incurred to date for our 2020, 2021 and 2022 restructuring actions: During 2022, we also incurred charges of $1 million within the Measurement & Control Solutions segment, related to actions commenced prior to 2020. During 2021, we recorded a reduction of $3 million within the Measurement & Control Solutions segment, related to actions commenced prior to 2020. The Water Infrastructure, Applied Water and Measurement & Control Solutions actions commenced in 2022 consist primarily of severance charges. The actions commenced in 2022 are complete. The Water Infrastructure actions commenced in 2021 consist primarily of severance charges. The actions commenced in 2021 are complete. As a result of the actions initiated in 2022, we achieved savings of approximately $2 million in 2022 and estimate annual future net savings beginning in 2023 of approximately $14 million, resulting in $12 million of incremental savings from 2022 actions. 47 Asset Impairment During 2022, we determined that certain assets, primarily software and customer relationships, within our Measurement & Control Solutions segment were impaired. Accordingly, we recognized an impairment charge of $14 million. Refer to Note 11, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," for additional information. Operating Income and Adjusted EBITDA Operating income was $622 million (operating margin of 11.3%) during 2022, an increase of $37 million, or 6.3%, when compared to operating income of $585 million (operating margin of 11.3%) during the prior year. Operating margin included unfavorable impacts of 40 basis points from increases in special charges and restructuring and realignment costs as compared to the prior year. Additionally, operating margin included 1020 basis points of expansion from favorable operating impacts, driven by a 670 basis point increase from price realization, 280 basis points from productivity savings and 70 basis points from favorable volume. Margin expansion was offset by 980 basis points of unfavorable impacts driven by 660 basis points of inflation, 180 basis points of increased spending on strategic investments, 40 basis points of inventory management costs and 30 basis points of unfavorable mix. Excluding special charges and restructuring and realignment costs, adjusted operating income was $672 million (adjusted operating margin of 12.2%) for 2022 as compared to adjusted operating income of $611 million (adjusted operating margin of 11.8%) during the prior year. Adjusted EBITDA was $940 million (adjusted EBITDA margin of 17.0%) during 2022, an increase of $50 million, or 5.6%, when compared to adjusted EBITDA of $890 million (adjusted EBITDA margin of 17.1%) during the prior year. The slight decrease in adjusted EBITDA margin was primarily due to the same factors impacting adjusted operating margin noted above; however, adjusted EBITDA margin did not benefit from a year over year reduction in depreciation and amortization expense. 48 The table below provides a reconciliation of total and each segment's operating income to adjusted operating income, and a calculation of the corresponding adjusted operating margin: NM    Not Meaningful 49 The table below provides a reconciliation of net income to consolidated EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA: The tables below provide a reconciliation of each segment's operating income (loss) to EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA: 50 Water Infrastructure Operating income was $418 million for our Water Infrastructure segment (operating margin of 17.7%) during 2022, an increase of $31 million, or 8.0%, when compared to operating income of $387 million (operating margin of 17.2%) during the prior year, or a total increase of 50 basis points. Operating margin expansion included favorable impacts of 20 basis points from a decrease in restructuring and realignment costs as compared to the prior year. Additionally, operating margin expansion included 940 basis points from favorable operating impacts, driven by 560 basis points of price realization, 270 basis points from productivity savings and 110 basis points of favorable volume. Margin expansion was offset by 910 basis points of unfavorable impacts driven by 560 basis points of inflation, 220 basis points due to increased spending on strategic investments and 70 basis points of unfavorable mix. Excluding special charges and restructuring and realignment costs, adjusted operating income was $429 million (adjusted operating margin of 18.1%) during 2022 as compared to adjusted operating income of $399 million (adjusted operating margin of 17.8%) during the prior year. Adjusted EBITDA was $480 million (adjusted EBITDA margin of 20.3%) during 2022, an increase of $33 million, or 7.4%, when compared to adjusted EBITDA of $447 million (adjusted EBITDA margin of 19.9%) during the prior year. The increase in adjusted EBITDA margin was primarily due to the same factors impacting the increase in adjusted operating margin. 51 Applied Water Operating income was $258 million for our Applied Water segment (operating margin of 14.6%) during 2022, an increase of $18 million, or 7.5%, when compared to operating income of $240 million (operating margin of 14.9%) during the prior year, or a total decrease of 30 basis points. Operating margin declines included unfavorable impacts of 20 basis points from an increase in restructuring and realignment costs and special charges as compared to the prior year. Additionally, operating margin decline included 1290 basis points of unfavorable operating impacts, driven by 880 basis points of inflation, 110 basis points of increased spending on strategic investments, 120 basis points of increased inventory management costs and 40 basis points of unfavorable mix. Margin declines were offset by 1280 basis points from favorable operating impacts, which were driven by 930 basis points of price realization, 340 basis points from productivity savings and 10 basis points from favorable volume. Excluding special charges and restructuring and realignment costs, adjusted operating income was $271 million (adjusted operating margin of 15.3%) during 2022 as compared to adjusted operating income of $248 million (adjusted operating margin of 15.4%) during the prior year. Adjusted EBITDA was $292 million (adjusted EBITDA margin of 16.5%) during 2022, an increase of $21 million, or 7.7%, when compared to adjusted EBITDA of $271 million (adjusted EBITDA margin of 16.8%) during the prior year. The decrease in adjusted EBITDA margin was primarily due to the same factors impacting the decrease in adjusted operating margin. Measurement & Control Solutions Operating income was $2 million for our Measurement & Control Solutions (operating margin of 0.1%) during 2022, a decrease of $10 million, or 83.3%, when compared to operating income of $12 million (operating margin of 0.9%) during the prior year, or a total decrease of 80 basis points. Operating margin declines included unfavorable impacts of 160 basis points from an increase in special charges (asset impairment) and restructuring and realignment costs as compared to the prior year. Operating margin impacts included 790 basis points from favorable operating impacts consisting of 450 basis points of price realization, 230 basis points from productivity savings and 70 basis points from favorable volume. Favorable impacts were offset by 710 basis points of unfavorable impacts driven by 520 basis points of inflation, 100 basis points of higher performance related incentive costs and 40 basis points of increased spending on strategic investments. Excluding special charges and restructuring and realignment costs, adjusted operating income was $26 million (adjusted operating margin of 1.9%) during 2022 as compared to adjusted operating income of $15 million (adjusted operating margin of 1.1%) during the prior year. Adjusted EBITDA was $167 million (adjusted EBITDA margin of 12.0%) during 2022, an increase of $3 million, or 1.8%, when compared to adjusted EBITDA of $164 million (adjusted EBITDA margin of 12.3%) during the prior year. The decrease in adjusted EBITDA margin was due to the same factors as those impacting the increase in adjusted operating margin; however, adjusted EBITDA margin did not benefit from a year over year reduction in depreciation and amortization expense. Corporate and other Operating loss for corporate and other increased $2 million, or 3.7%, compared to the prior year. The increase in operating loss for the year was primarily due to higher performance related incentive costs. Interest Expense Interest expense was $50 million and $76 million for 2022 and 2021, respectively. The decrease in interest expense was primarily driven by interest expense incurred during 2021 related to our 4.875% Senior Notes due 2021 that were paid off in October 2021 and interest income related to additional net investment hedges executed in during 2022. See Note 14, "Credit Facilities and Debt", of our consolidated financial statements for a description of our credit facilities and long-term debt and related interest. U.K. Pension Settlement Expense The Company initiated the process for a full buy-out of its largest defined benefit plan in the U.K. in 2019. During the first quarter of 2020, the Company purchased a bulk annuity policy as a plan asset to facilitate the termination and buy-out of the plan. The buy-out was completed in September 2022, at which point the remaining benefit obligations were transferred to the insurer and we were relieved of any further obligation. As a result, we recorded a pension settlement charge of £123 million (approximately $140 million) in the third quarter of 2022, primarily consisting of unrecognized actuarial losses. Refer to Note 15, "Post-retirement Benefit Plans", of our consolidated financial statements for additional information. 52 Income Tax Expense The income tax provision for 2022 was $85 million at an effective tax rate of 19.2% as compared to $84 million at an effective tax rate of 16.3% in 2021. The 2022 effective tax rate differs from that of 2021 primarily due to the impact of higher U.S. domestic pre-tax income in the current period. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table summarizes our sources and uses of cash: (a) The decrease in negative impact of foreign exchange as compared to 2021 is primarily due to strengthening of the Euro partially offset by weakening of the Chinese Yuan. Sources and Uses of Liquidity Operating Activities During 2022, net cash provided by operating activities was $596 million, compared to $538 million in 2021. The $58 million year-over-year increase was primarily driven by higher customer prepayments, timing of employee benefit payments and lower interest payments. Higher working capital levels, reflecting increased sales, partially offset these items. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities was $191 million in 2022, compared to $183 million in 2021. This increase in cash used of $8 million was mainly driven by cash paid for investments, the settlement of a currency forward agreement and reduced proceeds from sales of businesses. Cash received from cross-currency swaps and cash investments partially offset the increased outflow. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities was $790 million in 2022, compared to $855 million in 2021. The year-over-year decrease in cash used was mainly driven by lower debt repayments and reduced repurchases of common stock. Higher dividend payments and lower proceeds from employee stock options partially offset these items. Funding and Liquidity Strategy Our ability to fund our capital needs depends on our ongoing ability to generate cash from operations and access to bank financing and the capital markets. We continually evaluate aspects of our spending, including capital expenditures, strategic investments and dividends. Historically, we have generated operating cash flow sufficient to fund our primary cash needs. We currently do not expect any significant impact to our capital and financial resources from the COVID-19 pandemic, including our overall liquidity position based on our available cash and cash equivalents and our access to credit facilities and the capital markets, however we continue to monitor the ongoing impacts of the pandemic. If our cash flows from operations are less than we expect, we may need to incur debt or issue equity. From time to time, we may need to access the long-term and short-term capital markets to obtain financing. Our access to, and the availability of, financing on acceptable terms and conditions in the future will be impacted by many factors, including: (i) our credit ratings or absence of a credit rating, (ii) the liquidity of the overall capital markets, and (iii) the current state of the economy. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or that such financing will be available at all. Our securities are rated investment grade. A significant change in credit rating could impact our ability to borrow at favorable rates. See Note 14, "Credit Facilities and Debt", of our consolidated financial statements for a description of our credit facilities and long-term debt and a description of limitations on obtaining additional funding. 53 We monitor our global funding requirements and seek to meet our liquidity needs on a cost-effective basis. In addition, our existing committed credit facilities and access to the public debt markets would provide further liquidity if required. Based on our current global cash positions, cash flows from operations and access to the capital markets, we believe there is sufficient liquidity to meet our funding requirements and service debt and other obligations in both the U.S. and outside of the U.S. over the next 12 months. Currently, we have available liquidity of approximately $1.7 billion, consisting of $944 million of cash and $800 million of available credit facilities as disclosed in Note 14, "Credit Facilities and Debt", of our consolidated financial statements. Risk related to these items are described in our risk factor disclosures referenced under “Item 1A. Risk Factors". In the fourth quarter of 2022, the Company entered into an agreement with Idrica, a leader in water data management and analytics, to distribute Idrica’s GoAigua technology globally and take a minority stake in Idrica. Subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory clearance, Xylem expects to fund the investment with cash on hand for approximately €100 million in the first half of 2023. Contractual Obligations Material contractual obligations arising in the normal course of business primarily consist of debt obligations and related interest payments, lease obligations and unconditional purchase obligations. Refer Note 14, “Credit Facilities and Debt” and Note 10, “Leases” of the consolidated financial statements for related to these matters. The Company has future unconditional purchase commitments which are legally binding and that specify all significant terms including price and/or quantity. Total future commitments within the next twelve months for these obligations is $421 million, excluding contracts that can be canceled without penalty. Credit Facilities & Long-Term Contractual Commitments See Note 14, "Credit Facilities and Debt" of our consolidated financial statements for a description of our credit facilities and long-term debt. Non-U.S. Operations As we continue to grow our operations in the emerging markets and elsewhere outside of the U.S., we expect to continue to generate significant revenue from non-U.S. operations and expect that a substantial portion of our cash will be predominately held by our foreign subsidiaries. We expect to manage our worldwide cash requirements considering available funds among the many subsidiaries through which we conduct business and the cost effectiveness with which those funds can be accessed. We may transfer cash from certain international subsidiaries to the U.S. and other international subsidiaries when we believe it is cost effective to do so. We continually review our domestic and foreign cash profile, expected future cash generation and investment opportunities and reassess whether there is a need to repatriate funds held internationally to support our U.S. operations. As of December 31, 2022, we have provided a deferred tax liability of $5 million for net foreign withholding taxes and state income taxes on $467 million of earnings expected to be repatriated to the U.S. parent as deemed necessary in the future. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We are a party to certain off-balance sheet arrangements including certain guarantees. For discussion of these arrangements, see Note 19, “Commitments and Contingencies” of the consolidated financial statements. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. 54 Significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are discussed in Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” of the consolidated financial statements. Accounting estimates and assumptions discussed in this section are those that we consider most critical to an understanding of our financial statements because they are inherently uncertain, involve significant judgments, include areas where different estimates reasonably could have been used, and changes in the estimates that are reasonably possible could materially impact the financial statements. Management believes that the accounting estimates employed and the resulting balances are reasonable; however, actual results in these areas could differ from management’s estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Revenue Recognition. Xylem recognizes revenue in a manner that depicts the transfer of promised goods and services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which it expects to be entitled for providing those goods and services. For each arrangement with a customer, we identify the contract and the associated performance obligations within the contract, determine the transaction price of that contract, allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation and recognize revenue as each performance obligation is satisfied. The satisfaction of performance obligations in a contract is based upon when the customer obtains control over the asset. Depending on the nature of the performance obligation, control transfers either at a particular point in time, or over time, which determines the recognition pattern of revenue. For product sales, other than long-term construction-type contracts, we recognize revenue once control has passed at a point in time, which is generally when products are shipped. In instances where contractual terms include a provision for customer acceptance, revenue is recognized when either (i) we have previously demonstrated that the product meets the specified criteria based on either seller or customer-specified objective criteria or (ii) upon formal acceptance received from the customer where the product has not been previously demonstrated to meet customer-specified objective criteria. We recognize revenue on product sales to channel partners, including resellers, distributors or value-added solution providers, at the point in time when the risks and rewards, possession, and title have transferred to the customer, which usually occurs at the point of delivery. Revenue from performance obligations related to services is primarily recognized over time, as the performance obligations are satisfied. In these instances, the customer consumes the benefit of the service as Xylem performs. Certain businesses also enter into long-term construction-type sales contracts where revenue is recognized over time. In these instances, revenue is recognized using a measure of progress that applies an input method based on costs incurred in relation to total estimated costs. We also recognize revenue for certain of these arrangements using the output method and measure progress based on shipments of product where control has transferred to the customer. For all contracts with customers, we determine the transaction price in the arrangement and allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation identified in the contract. Judgment is required to determine the appropriate unit of account, and we separate out the performance obligations if they are capable of being distinct and are distinct within the context of the contract. The transaction price is adjusted for our estimate of variable consideration, which may include a right of return, discounts, rebates, penalties and retainage. To estimate variable consideration, we apply the expected value or the most likely amount method, based on whichever method most appropriately predicts the amount of consideration we expect to be entitled to. The method applied is typically based on historical experience and known trends. We constrain the amounts of variable consideration that are included in the transaction price, to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur or when uncertainties around the variable consideration are resolved. Income Taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which we expect the differences will reverse. Based on the evaluation of available evidence, we recognize future tax benefits, such as net operating loss carryforwards, to the extent that we believe it is more likely than not we will realize these benefits. We periodically assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets and reflect any changes to our estimate of the amount we are more likely than not to realize in the valuation allowance, with a corresponding adjustment to earnings or other comprehensive income, as appropriate. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we look to the future reversal of existing taxable temporary differences, taxable income in carryback years and the feasibility of tax planning strategies and estimated future taxable income. The valuation allowance can be affected by changes to tax laws, changes to statutory tax rates and changes to future taxable income estimates. 55 We have recorded net foreign withholding taxes and state income taxes on earnings that are expected to be repatriated to the U.S. parent. We have not recorded any deferred taxes on the amounts that the Company currently does not intend to repatriate. The determination of deferred taxes on this amount is not practicable. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. We recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. Furthermore, we recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if based on the technical merits of the position it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities or upon completion of the litigation process. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate resolution. We adjust our liability for uncertain tax positions in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. If our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, an additional tax expense would result. If a payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be less than the recorded amounts, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. Business Combinations. We record acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting. All of the assets acquired, liabilities assumed, contractual contingencies and contingent consideration is recorded at fair value as of the acquisition date. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. The application of the purchase method of accounting for business combinations requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions in the determination of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, in order to properly allocate purchase price consideration between assets that are depreciated and amortized from goodwill. These assumptions and estimates include a market participant’s use of the asset and the appropriate discount rates for a market participant. Our estimates are based on historical experience, information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and, when appropriate, includes assistance from independent third-party appraisal firms. Significant assumptions and estimates include, but are not limited to, the cash flows that an asset is expected to generate in the future, the cost to build/recreate certain technology, the appropriate weighted-average cost of capital, and the cost savings expected to be derived from acquiring an asset. These estimates are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. In addition, unanticipated events and circumstances may occur which may affect the accuracy or validity of such estimates. Goodwill and Intangible Assets. We review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. We also review the carrying value of our finite-lived intangible assets for potential impairment when impairment indicators arise. We conduct our annual impairment test as of the first day of the fourth quarter. For goodwill, the estimated fair value of each reporting unit is compared to the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that reporting unit. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill is not impaired. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, then an impairment charge is recognized for that excess up to the amount of recorded goodwill. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units using an income approach. We estimate the fair value of our intangible assets with indefinite lives using either the income approach or the market approach. Under the income approach, we calculate fair value based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. Under the market approach, we calculate fair value based on recent sales and selling prices of similar assets. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit or an indefinite-lived intangible asset is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, particularly related to future operating results and cash flows. These estimates and assumptions include, but are not limited to, revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk-adjusted discount rates, assumed royalty rates, future economic and market conditions and identification of appropriate market comparable data. In addition, the identification of reporting units and the allocation of assets and liabilities to the reporting units when determining the carrying value of each reporting unit also require judgment. Goodwill is tested for impairment at either the operating segment identified in Note 21, “Segment and Geographic Data,” of the consolidated financial statements, or one level below. The fair value of our reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets is based on estimates and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable. Significant changes to these estimates and assumptions could adversely impact our conclusions. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. 56 The risks around impairment of our assets are included in our risk factor disclosures referenced under “Item 1A. Risk Factors". During the fourth quarter of 2022, we performed our annual impairment assessment and determined that the estimated fair values of our goodwill reporting units were substantially in excess of each of their carrying values. However, future goodwill impairment tests could result in a charge to earnings. We will continue to evaluate goodwill on an annual basis as of the beginning of our fourth quarter and whenever events and changes in circumstances require us to do so. We determined that no material impairment of the indefinite-lived intangibles existed as of the measurement date in 2022. However, future indefinite-lived intangible impairment tests could result in a charge to earnings. We will continue to evaluate indefinite-lived intangibles on an annual basis as of the beginning of our fourth quarter and whenever events and changes in circumstances indicate there may be a potential impairment. Post-retirement Benefit Plans. Company employees around the world participate in numerous defined benefit plans. The determination of projected benefit obligations and the recognition of expenses related to these plans are dependent on various assumptions. These major assumptions primarily relate to discount rates, expected long-term rates of return on plan assets, rate of future compensation increases, mortality, years of service and other factors (some of which are disclosed in Note 15, “Post-retirement Benefit Plans,” of the consolidated financial statements). Actual results that differ from our assumptions are accumulated and amortized on a straight-line basis only to the extent they exceed 10% of the higher of the market-related value or projected benefit obligation, over the average remaining service period of active plan participants, or for plans with all or substantially all inactive participants, over the average remaining life expectancy. Significant Assumptions Management develops each assumption using relevant Company experience, in conjunction with market-related data for each individual country in which such plans exist. All assumptions are reviewed annually with third-party consultants and are adjusted as necessary. The table below provides the weighted average assumptions used to estimate our defined benefit pension obligations and costs as of and for the years ended 2022 and 2021. NM    Not meaningful. The pension benefits for future service for all the U.S. pension plans are based on years of service and not impacted by future compensation increases. We determine the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets by evaluating both historical returns and estimates of future returns. Specifically, the Company analyzes the estimated future returns based on independent estimates of asset class returns and evaluates historical broad market returns over long-term timeframes based on the strategic asset allocation, which is detailed in Note 15, “Post-retirement Benefit Plans,” of the consolidated financial statements. For the recognition of net periodic pension cost, the calculation of the expected return on plan assets is generally derived by applying the expected long-term rate of return to the market-related value of plan assets. The market-related value of plan assets is based on average asset values at the measurement date over the last five years. The use of fair value, rather than a calculated value, could materially affect net periodic pension cost. The weighted average expected long-term rate of return for all of our plan assets to be used in determining net periodic benefit costs for 2023 is estimated at 5.90%. We estimate that every 25 basis point change in the expected return on plan assets impacts the expense by less than $1 million. The discount rate reflects our expectation of the present value of expected future cash payments for benefits at the measurement date. A decrease in the discount rate increases the present value of benefit obligations and increases pension expense. We base the discount rate assumption on current investment yields of high-quality fixed income investments during the retirement benefits maturity period. The pension discount rate was determined by considering an interest rate yield curve comprising AAA/AA bonds, with maturities between zero and 30 years, developed by the plan’s actuaries. Annual benefit payments are then discounted to present value using this yield 57 curve to develop a single-point discount rate matching the plan’s characteristics. Our weighted average discount rate for all pension plans effective January 1, 2023, is 4.35%. We estimate that every 25 basis point change in the discount rate impacts the expense b y less than $1 million. The rate of future compensation increase assumption reflects our long-term actual experience and future and near-term outlook. Effective January 1, 2023, our expected rate of future compensation is 2.94% for all pension plans. The estimated impact of a 25 basis point change in the expected rate of future compensation is less than $1 million. The Company initiated the process for a full buy-out of its largest defined benefit plan in the U.K. in 2019. During the first quarter of 2020, the Company purchased a bulk annuity policy as a plan asset to facilitate the termination and buy-out of the plan. The buy-out was completed in September 2022, at which point the remaining benefit obligations were transferred to the insurer and we were relieved of any further obligation. As a result, we recorded a pension settlement charge of £123 million (approximately $140 million), primarily consisting of unrecognized actuarial losses. The settlement also resulted in the recognition of $23 million in net tax benefits. The settlement of the plan did not impact our cash position. We currently anticipate making contributions to our pension and post-retirement benefit plans in the range of $18 million to $26 million during 2023. Approximately $5 million of contributions are expected to be made in the first quarter. Funded Status Funded status is derived by subtracting the respective year-end values of the projected benefit obligations from the fair value of plan assets. We estimate that every 25 basis point change in the discount rate impacts the funded status by approximately $10 million. Fair Value of Plan Assets The plan assets of our pension plans comprise a broad range of investments, including domestic and foreign equity securities, interests in hedge funds, fixed income investments, insurance contracts, and cash and cash equivalents. A portion of our pension benefit plan assets portfolio comprises investments in hedge funds which are generally measured at net asset value. However, in certain instances, the values reported by the asset managers were not current at the measurement date. Accordingly, we made estimate adjustments to the last reported value where necessary to measure the assets at fair value at the measurement date. These adjustments consider information received from the asset managers, as well as general market information. The adjustment recorded at December 31, 2022 and 2021 for these assets represented less than 1% of total plan assets in each respective year. Asset values for other positions were generally measured using market observable prices. We estimate that a 5% change in asset values will impact funded status by approximately $10 million. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 , “Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements,” of the consolidated financial statements for a complete discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. 58