********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should carefully review the risks described below as they identify important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements, expectations and historical trends.  Any of the following risk factors, either by itself or together with other risk factors, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. Risks Related to COVID-19, Health Epidemics and Food Safety The novel coronavirus (COVID-19) global pandemic has had, and is expected to continue to have, an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In late 2019, COVID-19 was first detected and in March 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a global pandemic. During 2020, COVID-19 spread throughout the U.S. and the rest of the world, and governmental authorities implemented measures to reduce the spread of COVID-19.  These measures include restrictions on travel outside the home or other limitations on business and other activities, as well as encouraging social distancing. Moreover, COVID-19 cases increased in late 2020 and early 2021 in the U.S. and various other regions of the world in which we have operations, which resulted in some governmental authorities re-imposing restrictions on business and other activities that were previously lifted or reduced. Developments related to COVID-19 have had and are expected to continue to have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The impacts of COVID-19 have included the ongoing loss of revenues due to reduced and limited store-level operations, continued or increased full or partial dining room closures, other restrictions on our business and operations, continued delays in reopening, and an increase in the number of permanent restaurant closures during the year ended December 31, 2020.  The impact on our sales in each of our markets has been dependent on, among other factors, the timing, severity and duration of the outbreak, measures implemented by government authorities to reduce the spread of COVID-19, and our reliance on dine-in sales in the market. Additionally, we and our franchisees have made operational changes intended to safeguard employees and customers in response to COVID-19, including increased cleaning and sanitization, installation of counter 9 screens and purchasing personal protective equipment, which have increased and may continue to increase restaurant operating costs and impact restaurant-level margins and return on invested capital. Our and our franchisees restaurants may experience interruptions of food and other supplies as well as labor shortages as a result of COVID-19, thereby disrupting our and our franchisees operations and impacting same-store sales negatively. Our success is heavily reliant on our Concepts’ franchisees, and the COVID-19 pandemic has caused and may continue to cause financial distress for certain franchisees, particularly those located in areas most significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result of this distress, our franchisees may not be able to meet their financial obligations to us as they come due, including the payment of royalties, rent, or other amounts due to the Company. This has led to, and may continue to lead to, write-offs of amounts we have currently due from our franchisees beyond amounts we have reserved, as well as decreased future collections from franchisees. In certain instances we offered grace periods to our franchisees, who were in good standing with the Company and needed greater access to capital, for certain near-term payments due to us. Offering grace periods negatively impacts the Company’s cash flows in the short-term, and if grace periods are necessitated in the future there is no guarantee that our franchisees will ultimately pay amounts due. Additionally, our franchisees may not be able to make payments to landlords, distributors and key suppliers, as well as payments to service any debt they may have outstanding. Franchisee financial distress has also led to, and may continue to lead to, permanent store closures and delayed or reduced new franchisee development, which may further harm our results and liquidity. Further, in some cases, we are contingently liable for franchisee lease obligations, and a failure by a franchisee to perform its obligations under such lease could result in direct payment obligations for YUM. We are unable to fully predict the impact that COVID-19 will have on our and our franchisees’ operations going forward due to various uncertainties, including the severity and duration of the outbreak, the timing and availability of effective medical treatments and vaccines, the timing and effectiveness of the ongoing rollout of vaccines, the extent to which COVID-19 may cause customers to continue to be reluctant to return to in-restaurant dining or otherwise change their consumption patterns (including after the COVID-19 pandemic has ended), additional actions that may be taken by governmental authorities, and the length and severity of ongoing negative economic conditions in the U.S. and globally arising from the COVID-19 pandemic. Moreover, if conditions related to the COVID-19 pandemic result in significant disruptions to capital and financial markets, or negatively impact our credit ratings, our cost of borrowing, our ability to access capital on favorable terms and our overall liquidity and capital structure could be adversely impacted. Finally, the negative economic conditions arising from the COVID-19 pandemic have resulted in the impairment of the value of certain of our restaurant assets as well as the goodwill impairment charge we incurred with respect to our Habit Burger Grill reporting unit in the first quarter of 2020.  If such conditions persist and continue to adversely affect our business, this could give rise to impairment in the value of other tangible or intangible assets.  Conversely, for our restaurants that prominently feature drive-thru, carryout and delivery options, COVID-19 has in many cases contributed to an increase in sales during 2020.   If the impact of COVID-19 recedes, in-person dining restrictions are lifted or lessened and the restaurant industry in general returns to more normal operations, the benefits to sales experienced by certain of our restaurants, including our Pizza Hut delivery restaurants, could wane and our results could be negatively impacted. Food safety and food-borne illness concerns may have an adverse effect on our business. Food-borne illnesses, such as E. coli, Listeria, Salmonella and Trichinosis, occur or may occur within our system from time to time.  In addition, food safety issues such as food tampering, contamination and adulteration occur or may occur within our system from time to time.  Furthermore, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, there are now stricter health regulations and guidelines and increased public concern over food safety standards and controls. Any report or publicity linking us or one of our Concepts’ restaurants, including restaurants operated by us or our Concepts’ franchisees, or linking our competitors or the retail food industry generally, to instances of food-borne illness or food safety issues could adversely affect our Concepts’ brands and reputations as well as our revenues and profits, and possibly lead to product liability claims, litigation, governmental investigations or actions, and damages.  If a customer of one of our Concepts’ restaurants becomes ill from food borne illnesses or as a result of food safety issues, restaurants in our system may be temporarily closed, which could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, instances or allegations of food-borne illness or food safety issues, real or perceived, involving our restaurants, restaurants of competitors, or our suppliers or distributors (regardless of whether we use or have used those suppliers or distributors), or otherwise involving the types of food served at our restaurants, could result in negative publicity that could adversely affect either our or our Concepts’ franchisees’ revenues and profits.  The occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, which could result in disruptions in our supply chain and/or lower margins for us and our Concepts’ franchisees. Health concerns arising from the outbreak of a health epidemic or pandemic may have an adverse effect on our business. 10 Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the outbreak of a widespread health epidemic or pandemic (in addition to the current COVID-19 pandemic, as discussed above), including arising from various strains of avian flu or swine flu, such as H1N1, particularly if located in regions from which we derive a significant amount of revenue or profit.  The occurrence of such an outbreak or other adverse public health developments could materially disrupt our business and operations.  Such events could also significantly impact our industry and cause a temporary closure of restaurants, which could severely disrupt our or our franchisees’ operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our operations could be disrupted if any of our employees or employees of our business partners were suspected of having the avian flu or swine flu, or other illnesses such as hepatitis A or norovirus, since this could require us or our business partners to quarantine some or all of such employees or disinfect our restaurant facilities. Outbreaks of avian flu occur from time to time around the world, and such outbreaks have resulted in confirmed human cases.  It is possible that outbreaks could reach pandemic levels.  Public concern over avian flu generally may cause fear about the consumption of chicken, eggs and other products derived from poultry, which could cause customers to consume less poultry and related products.  Because poultry is a menu offering for our Concepts, this would likely result in lower revenues and profits for us and our Concepts’ franchisees. Avian flu outbreaks could also adversely affect the price and availability of poultry, which could negatively impact profit margins and revenues for us and our Concepts’ franchisees. Furthermore, other viruses may be transmitted through human contact, and the risk of contracting viruses could cause employees or guests to avoid gathering in public places, which could adversely affect restaurant guest traffic or the ability to adequately staff restaurants.  We could also be adversely affected if government authorities impose mandatory closures, seek voluntary closures, impose restrictions on operations of restaurants, or restrict the import or export of products, or if suppliers issue mass recalls of products.  Even if such measures are not implemented and a virus or other disease does not spread significantly, the perceived risk of infection or health risk may adversely affect our business and operating results. Risks Related to our Business Strategy and reliance upon Franchisees Our operating results and growth strategies are closely and increasingly tied to the success of our Concepts’ franchisees. The vast majority (98%) of our restaurants are operated by our Concepts’ franchisees, and our percentage of franchise-owned restaurants has increased in recent years.  Our refranchising efforts have increased our dependence on the financial success and cooperation of our Concepts’ franchisees.  In addition, our long-term growth depends on maintaining the pace of our net system unit growth rate.  Nearly all of this unit growth is expected to result from new unit openings by our Concepts’ franchisees.  We also rely on master franchisees, who have rights to license to sub-franchisees the right to develop and operate restaurants, to achieve our expectations for new unit development.  If our Concepts’ franchisees and master franchisees do not meet our expectations for new unit development, we may not achieve our desired growth. We have limited control over how our Concepts’ franchisees’ businesses are run, and their inability to operate successfully could adversely affect our operating results through decreased fees paid to us for royalties, advertising funds contributions, and other discrete services we may provide to our Concept’s franchisees (e.g. management of e-commerce platforms).  If our Concepts’ franchisees fail to adequately capitalize their businesses or incur too much debt, if their operating expenses or commodity prices increase or if economic or sales trends deteriorate such that they are unable to operate profitably or repay existing debt, it could result in their financial distress, including insolvency or bankruptcy, or the inability to meet development targets or obligations.  If a significant franchisee of one of our Concepts becomes, or a significant number of our Concepts’ franchisees in the aggregate become, financially distressed, our operating results could be impacted through reduced or delayed fee payments that cause us to record bad debt expense, reduced advertising fund contributions, and reduced new unit development. For example, NPC International, Inc. (“NPC”), which had been our largest Pizza Hut U.S. franchisee, filed voluntary petitions in July 2020 to restructure under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In connection with this bankruptcy filing, we consented to the closure of up to 300 mutually selected underperforming units, primarily dine-in locations. Furthermore, the COVID-19 pandemic has caused and may continue to cause financial distress for some portion of our Concepts’ franchisees. In addition, we are secondarily liable on certain of our Concepts’ franchisees’ restaurant lease agreements, including lease agreements that we have guaranteed or assigned to franchisees in connection with the refranchising of certain Company-owned restaurants.  Our operating results could be impacted by any increased rent obligations for such leased properties to the extent our Concepts’ franchisees default on such lease agreements.  In addition, the failure of our Concepts’ franchisees to attract and retain quality personnel or adequately engage in succession planning may adversely affect their restaurant operations and the development of new restaurants, which in turn could hurt our business. Our success also depends on the willingness and ability of our Concepts’ franchisees to implement marketing programs and major initiatives such as restaurant remodels or equipment or technology upgrades, which may require financial investment.  Our Concepts may be unable to successfully implement strategies that we believe are necessary for further growth if their franchisees do not participate, which in turn may harm the growth prospects and financial condition of the Company. 11 Additionally, the failure of our Concepts’ franchisees to focus on key elements of restaurant operations, such as quality, service and cleanliness (even if such failures do not rise to the level of breaching the related franchise documents) may be attributed by guests to our Concepts’ entire brand and could have a negative impact on our business. Our reliance on master franchise arrangements can decrease our level of control over our Concepts’ restaurants and increase certain risks arising from franchise operations.  For example, we rely on our master franchisees to monitor and enforce sub-franchisee compliance with our operating standards, and a failure to comply with such standards could adversely affect our business. The financial performance of certain of our Concepts’ franchisees has an outsized impact on our operating results. We have franchise relationships that are particularly important to our business, such as our relationship with Yum China. In connection with the spin-off of our China business in 2016 into an independent publicly-traded company (the “Separation” or “Yum China spin-off”), we entered into a Master License Agreement pursuant to which Yum China is the exclusive licensee of the KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell Concepts and their related marks and other intellectual property rights for restaurant services in mainland China. Following the Separation, Yum China became, and continues to be, our largest franchisee. Our financial results are significantly affected by Yum China’s results as we are entitled to receive a 3% sales-based royalty on all Yum China system sales related to our Concepts. In addition to Yum China, we have other significant relationships on which our success is dependent, including our strategic alliance with Telepizza Group S.A., which is the master franchisee of Pizza Hut in Latin America (excluding Brazil) and portions of Europe, and our relationship with certain large franchisees, such as Flynn Restaurant Group, an existing YUM franchisee which recently announced its intention to acquire approximately 950 Pizza Hut U.S. restaurants which would make it the largest operator of Pizza Hut restaurants in the U.S. Any failure to realize the expected benefits of such franchise relationships may adversely impact our business and operating results. We may not achieve our target development goals, including as the result of the COVID-19 pandemic, and new restaurants may not be profitable. Our growth strategy depends on our and our Concepts’ franchisees’ ability to increase the number of restaurants around the world. However, we had fewer net restaurant openings and greater permanent restaurant closures during 2020 compared to our recent history and expectations as the result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, we experienced higher closures in the Pizza Hut system during 2020 as a result of our previously announced efforts to accelerate the transformation of the Pizza Hut restaurant estate to a more modern and delivery-based business and other business model pressures impacting certain Pizza Hut restaurants. The successful development of new units depends in large part on the ability of our Concepts’ franchisees to open new restaurants and to operate these restaurants profitably. Effectively managing growth can be challenging, particularly as we expand into new markets internationally, and we cannot guarantee that we, or our Concepts’ franchisees, including Yum China, will be able to achieve our expansion goals or that new restaurants will be operated profitably.  Further, there is no assurance that any new restaurant will produce operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants.  Other risks that could impact our ability to increase the number of our restaurants include prevailing economic conditions and trade or economic policies or sanctions, our ability to attract new franchisees, construction and development costs of new restaurants, and our, or our Concepts’ franchisees’, ability to obtain suitable restaurant locations, negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms for the locations, obtain required permits and approvals in a timely manner, hire and train qualified management teams and restaurant crews, and meet construction schedules. Expansion into markets could also be affected by our Concepts’ franchisees’ willingness to invest capital or ability to obtain financing to construct and open new restaurants.  If it becomes more difficult or more expensive for our Concepts’ franchisees to obtain financing to develop new restaurants, or if the perceived return on invested capital is not sufficiently attractive, the expected growth of our system could slow and our future revenues and operating cash flows could be adversely impacted. In addition, the development of new restaurants could impact the sales of our Concepts’ existing restaurants nearby.  There can be no assurance that sales cannibalization will not occur or become more significant in the future as we increase our presence in existing markets. We may not realize the anticipated benefits from past or potential future acquisitions, investments or other strategic transactions. From time to time we evaluate and may complete mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, strategic partnerships, minority investments (which may include minority investments in third parties, such as franchisees or master franchisees) and other strategic transactions, including our acquisition of The Habit Restaurants, Inc. completed in March 2020, our strategic 12 alliance with Telepizza Group S.A. effectuated in December 2018, and our acquisition of QuikOrder, LLC completed in December 2018. 13 Past and potential future strategic transactions may involve various inherent risks, including, without limitation: • expenses, delays or difficulties in integrating acquired companies, joint venture operations, strategic partnerships or investments into our organization, including the failure to realize expected synergies and/or the inability to retain key personnel; • diversion of management’s attention from other initiatives and/or day-to-day operations to effectively execute our growth strategy; • inability to generate sufficient revenue, profit, and cash flow from acquired companies, joint ventures, strategic partnerships or investments; • the possibility that we have acquired substantial contingent or unanticipated liabilities in connection with acquisitions or other strategic transactions; and • the possibility that investments we have made may decline significantly in value, which could lead to the potential impairment of the carrying value of goodwill associated with acquired businesses. Past and potential future strategic transactions may not ultimately create value for us and may harm our reputation and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Operating a Global Business We have significant exposure to the Chinese market through our largest franchisee, Yum China, which subjects us to risks that could negatively affect our business. A significant portion of our total business is conducted in mainland China, particularly with respect to our KFC Concept.  Yum China’s business is exposed to risks in mainland China, which include, among others, potential political, financial or social instability, changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation), consumer preferences, the regulatory environment (including uncertainties with respect to the interpretation and enforcement of Chinese laws, rules and regulations), the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic and related Chinese governmental restrictions.  Further, any significant or prolonged deterioration in U.S.–China relations, including as the result of current U.S.–China tensions, could adversely affect our Concepts in mainland China.  Chinese law regulates Yum China’s business conducted within mainland China.  Our royalty income from the Yum China business is therefore subject to numerous uncertainties based on the policies of the Chinese government, as they may change from time to time. If Yum China’s business is harmed or development of our Concepts’ restaurants is slowed in mainland China due to any of these factors, it could negatively impact the royalty paid by Yum China to us, which would negatively impact our financial results or our growth prospects. Our relationship with Yum China is governed primarily by a Master License Agreement, which may be terminated upon the occurrence of certain events, such as the insolvency or bankruptcy of Yum China. In addition, if we are unable to enforce our intellectual property or contract rights in mainland China, if Yum China is unable or unwilling to satisfy its obligations under the Master License Agreement, or if the Master License Agreement is otherwise terminated, it could result in an interruption in the operation of our brands that have been exclusively licensed to Yum China for use in mainland China.  Such interruption could cause a delay in, or loss of, royalty income to us, which would negatively impact our financial results. Our international operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business. A significant portion of our Concepts’ restaurants are operated in countries and territories outside of the U.S., including in emerging markets, and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations.  As a result, our business and the businesses of our Concepts’ franchisees are increasingly exposed to risks inherent in international operations.  These risks, which can vary substantially by country, include political, financial or social instability or conditions, geopolitical events, corruption, anti-American sentiment, social and ethnic unrest, and terrorism, as well as changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation), the regulatory environment (including the risks of operating in developing or emerging markets in which there are significant uncertainties regarding the interpretation and enforceability of legal requirements and the enforceability of contract rights and intellectual property rights), income and non-income based tax rates and laws, the impact of import restrictions or controls, sanctions, foreign exchange control regimes (including restrictions on currency conversion), natural disasters, the impact of labor costs and conditions, consumer preferences and the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in countries where our Concepts’ restaurants are operated. For example, we have been subject to a regulatory enforcement action in India alleging violation of foreign exchange laws for failure to satisfy conditions of certain operating approvals, such as minimum investment and store build requirements 14 as well as limitations on the remittance of fees outside of the country (See Note 20). In addition, we and our franchisees do business in jurisdictions that may be subject to trade or economic sanction regimes and such sanctions could be expanded.  Any failure to comply with such sanction regimes or other similar laws or regulations could result in the assessment of damages, the imposition of penalties, suspension of business licenses, or a cessation of operations at our or our franchisees’ businesses, as well as damage to our and our Concepts’ brands’ images and reputations, all of which could harm our profitability and growth prospects. Foreign currency risks and foreign exchange controls could adversely affect our financial results. Our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings.  More specifically, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies, such as the Chinese Renminbi (“RMB”), Australian Dollar, the British Pound and the Euro, as well as currencies in certain other markets, such as the Malaysian Ringgit and Russian Ruble, could have an adverse effect on our reported earnings.  Any significant fluctuation in the value of currencies of countries in which we or our franchisees operate, and in particular RMB in China, could materially impact the U.S. dollar value of royalty payments made to us, which could result in lower revenues.  There can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.  In addition, the governments in certain countries where our Concepts operate, including China, restrict the conversion of local currency into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of the country.  Restrictions on the conversion of RMB to U.S. dollars or further restrictions on the remittance of currency out of China could result in delays in the remittance of Yum China’s royalty, which could impact our liquidity. Risks Related to Technology, Data Privacy and  Intellectual Property Failure to protect the integrity and security of personal information of our customers and employees could result in substantial costs, expose us to litigation and damage our reputation. We receive and maintain certain personal, financial and other information about our customers, employees, vendors and franchisees.  In addition, our vendors and/or franchisees receive and maintain certain personal, financial and other information about our employees and customers. The use and handling, including security, of this information is regulated by evolving and increasingly demanding laws and regulations in various jurisdictions, as well as by certain third-party contracts and industry standards.  We have experienced cyber- attacks and security breaches from time to time. The number and frequency of these cyber-attacks and/or security breaches varies between periods but could be exacerbated by an increase in the use of our digital commerce platforms. If our security and information systems are compromised as a result of data corruption or loss, cyber-attack or a network security incident, or if our employees, franchisees or vendors fail to comply with these laws and regulations or fail to meet industry standards and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could result in liabilities and penalties and could damage our reputation, cause interruption of normal business performance, cause us to incur substantial costs and result in a loss of customer confidence, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we could be subject to litigation and government enforcement actions as a result of any such failure. Further, data privacy is subject to frequently changing rules and regulations, which sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries where we, our Concepts and our Concepts’ franchisees do business. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), which was adopted by the European Union effective May 2018, requires companies to meet new requirements regarding the handling of personal data and is subject to changing requirements, which could increase Company and franchisee resources necessary to comply.  In addition, the State of California enacted the California Consumer Privacy Act (the “CCPA”), which became effective January 2020, requiring companies that process information on California residents to, among other things, provide new disclosures and options to consumers about data collection, use and sharing practices. Further, the CCPA has been subject to revision and amendments, including significant modifications made by the California Privacy Rights Act (“CPRA”), which was recently approved by California voters as a ballot initiative in November 2020 and will take effect January 1, 2022. The updates and modifications to the CCPA, as well as requirements under the GDPR may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses to comply. Moreover, each of the GDPR and the CCPA confer a private right-of-action on certain individuals and associations. Our failure or the failure of our franchisees to adhere to or successfully implement appropriate processes to adhere to the requirements of GDPR, CCPA and other evolving laws and regulations in this area could result in financial penalties, legal liability and could damage our and our Concepts’ brands’ reputations. In addition, several other states have introduced or passed similar legislation to the CCPA and CPRA which may impose varying standards and requirements on our data collection, use and processing activities. The Federal Trade Commission and many state attorneys general are also interpreting federal and state consumer protection laws to impose standards for the collection, use, dissemination and security of data.  Furthermore, various international jurisdictions, where our Concepts have operations, have significantly strengthened their data privacy laws, rules and regulations.  If more restrictive or inconsistent 15 legal requirements are adopted by international, state and/or federal authorities in the future and/or regulators’ enforcement priorities shift, compliance costs and potential liability could increase for the Company and our Concepts’ franchisees, which could cause reputational harm and have an adverse effect on our business. Unreliable or inefficient restaurant or consumer-facing technology or the failure to successfully implement technology initiatives in the future could adversely impact operating results and the overall consumer experience. We and our Concepts’ franchisees rely heavily on information technology systems in the conduct of our business, some of which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties, including, for example, point-of-sale processing in our restaurants, management of our supply chain, and various other processes and procedures. These systems are subject to damage, interruption or failure due to theft, fire, power outages, telecommunications failure, computer viruses, security breaches, malicious cyber-attacks or other catastrophic events. Certain technology systems may also be unreliable or inefficient, and technology vendors may limit or terminate product support and maintenance, which could impact the reliability of critical systems’ operations. If our or our Concepts’ franchisees’ information technology systems are damaged or fail to function properly, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and may experience loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to manage inventories or process transactions, which could result in lost sales, customer or employee dissatisfaction, or negative publicity that could adversely impact our reputation, results of operations and financial condition. We and our Concepts’ franchisees rely on technology not only to efficiently operate our restaurants but also to drive the customer experience, sales growth and margin improvement. Our continued growth will be dependent on our initiatives to implement proprietary and third-party technology solutions and gather and leverage data to enhance restaurant operations and improve the customer experience.  It may be difficult to recruit and retain qualified individuals for these efforts due to intense competition for qualified technology systems’ developers necessary to innovate, develop and implement new technologies for our growth initiatives, including increasing our digital relationship with customers.  Our strategic technology initiatives may not be implemented in a timely manner or may not achieve the desired results.  Even if we effectively implement and manage our technology initiatives, there is no guarantee that this will result in sales growth or margin improvement. Additionally, developing and implementing the evolving technology demands of the consumer may place a significant financial burden on us and our Concepts’ franchisees, and our Concepts' franchisees may have differing views on investment priorities.  Moreover, our failure to adequately invest in new technology or adapt to technological advancements and industry trends, particularly with respect to digital commerce capabilities, could result in a loss of customers and related market share. If our Concepts’ digital commerce platforms do not meet customers’ expectations in terms of security, speed, attractiveness or ease of use, customers may be less inclined to return to such digital commerce platforms, which could negatively impact our business. There are risks associated with our increasing dependence on digital commerce platforms to maintain and grow sales.  Such platforms may experience disruptions, which could harm our ability to compete and conduct our business. Customers are increasingly using e-commerce websites and apps, both domestically and internationally, such as pizzahut.com, Pizza Hut, KFC, Taco Bell and The Habit Burger Grill apps, as well as apps owned by third-party delivery aggregators and third-party mobile payment processors, to order and pay for our Concepts’ products.  Moreover, the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in an increase in the use of store-level or third-party delivery services by our Concepts, and many restaurants in each of our Concepts now offer consumers the ability to have the Concept’s food delivered through third-party delivery services.  As a result, our Concepts and our Concepts’ franchisees are increasingly reliant on digital ordering and payment as a sales channel.  These digital ordering and payment platforms could be damaged or interrupted by power loss, technological failures, user errors, cyber-attacks, other forms of sabotage, inclement weather or natural disasters.  The digital ordering platforms relied upon by our Concepts have experienced interruptions and could experience further interruptions, which could limit or delay customers’ ability to order through such platforms or make customers less inclined to return to such platforms. The rapid acceleration in growth of digital sales has placed additional stress on those platforms that are more reliant upon legacy technology, such as certain platforms used by Pizza Hut, which may result in more frequent and potentially more severe interruptions.  Moreover, our reliance on multiple digital commerce platforms to support our global footprint, multiple Concepts and highly franchised business model could increase our vulnerability to cyber-attacks and/or security breaches and could necessitate additional expenditures as we endeavor to consolidate and standardize such platforms. Yum China, our largest franchisee, utilizes third-party mobile payment apps such as Alipay and WeChat as a means through which to generate sales and process payments.  Should customers become unable to access mobile payment apps in China or should the relationship between Yum China and one or more third-party mobile payment processors become interrupted, our results of operations could be negatively impacted.  In particular, political tensions between the U.S. and China escalated in 2020, with a number of actions taken by the U.S. government, such as the Clean Network program announced on August 5, 2020, to protect U.S. telecommunication and technology infrastructure, and two executive orders issued by President Trump on August 6, 2020, to ban, within 45 days of such date, any person or property subject to the jurisdiction of the U.S. from any transaction related to WeChat, to the extent that any such transaction is identified by the Secretary of Commerce as being subject to the prohibitions stated in the executive orders. While the directives issued by the Secretary of Commerce arising from 16 the executive orders only identified prohibited transactions that are limited to the territory of the U.S. and therefore are not expected to impact Yum China's operations in China, we cannot foresee whether and how similar or additional policy actions taken by the U.S. or Chinese governments will impact our business and financial performance. If Yum China’s ability to use WeChat or other third-party mobile payment apps in its operations is restricted, its business, operations, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, which could have a negative impact on the royalty paid to us. Our inability or failure to recognize, respond to and effectively manage the accelerated impact of social media could adversely impact our business. In recent years, there has been a marked increase in the use of social media platforms, including blogs, chat platforms, social media websites, and other forms of Internet-based communications which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons.  The rising popularity of social media and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination and given users the ability to more effectively organize collective actions such as boycotts and other brand-damaging behaviors.  Many social media platforms immediately publish the content their subscribers and participants post, often without filters or checks on accuracy of the content posted.  Information posted on such platforms at any time may be adverse to our interests and/or may be inaccurate.  The dissemination of information online could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and results of operations, regardless of the information’s accuracy.  The damage may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. In addition, social media is frequently used by our Concepts to communicate with their respective customers and the public in general.  Failure by our Concepts to use social media effectively or appropriately, particularly as compared to our Concepts’ respective competitors, could lead to a decline in brand value, customer visits and revenue.  In addition, laws and regulations, including Federal Trade Commission enforcement, are rapidly evolving to govern social media platforms and communications. A failure of us, our employees, our franchisees or third parties acting at our direction to abide by applicable laws and regulations in the use of social media could adversely impact our Concepts’ brands, our reputation and our business, or subject us or our franchisees to fines or other penalties. Other risks associated with the use of social media include improper disclosure of proprietary information, negative comments about our Concepts’ brands, exposure of personally identifiable information, fraud, hoaxes or malicious dissemination of false information.  The inappropriate use of social media by our customers or employees could increase our costs, lead to litigation or result in negative publicity that could damage our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to protect our service marks or other intellectual property could harm our Concepts’ Brands and overall business. We regard our registered service marks (e.g., Yum®, KFC®, Pizza Hut®, Taco Bell®, and The Habit®), and other service marks and trademarks related to our restaurant businesses, as having significant value and being important to our marketing efforts. Our service marks and trademarks create brand awareness and help build goodwill among our customers.  Thus, we rely on a combination of legal protections provided by contracts, copyrights, patents, trademarks, service marks and other common law rights, such as trade secret and unfair competition laws, to protect our restaurants and services from potential infringement. Many of our trademarks and service marks are registered in the U.S. and/or foreign jurisdictions. However, from time to time we become aware of names and marks identical or confusingly similar to our service marks being used by other persons or companies. Although our policy is to oppose any such infringement, further or unknown unauthorized uses or other misappropriation of our trademarks or service marks could diminish the value of our Concepts’ brands and adversely affect our business and goodwill. In addition, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our Concepts have, or may in the future open or franchise, a restaurant and the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S.  There can be no assurance that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property or the legal protections which may be available will be adequate, and defending or enforcing our trademarks, service marks and other intellectual property could result in the expenditure of significant resources or result in significant harm to our business, reputation, financial condition, and overall operations.  We may also face claims of infringement that could interfere with the use of the proprietary know-how, recipes, or trade secrets used in our business.  Defending against such claims is costly, and we may be prohibited from using such proprietary information in the future or forced to pay damages, royalties, or other fees for using such proprietary information, any of which could negatively affect our business, reputation, financial condition, and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Supply Chain and Employment Shortages or interruptions in the availability and delivery of food and other supplies may increase costs or reduce revenues. The products sold by our Concepts and their franchisees are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers although certain products have limited suppliers, which increases our reliance on those suppliers.  We, along with our Concepts’ franchisees, are also dependent upon third parties to make frequent deliveries of food products and supplies that meet our specifications at competitive prices.  Shortages or interruptions in the supply of food items and other supplies to our 17 Concepts’ restaurants have happened from time to time and could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of items we use and the operations of our restaurants, which in turn could lead to restaurant closures and/or a decrease in sales.  Future shortages or disruptions could be caused by inclement weather, natural disasters, pandemics (including the COVID-19 pandemic), inaccurate forecasting of customer demand, problems in production or distribution, restrictions on imports or exports including due to trade disputes or restrictions, the inability of vendors to obtain credit, political instability in the countries in which the suppliers and distributors are located, the financial instability of suppliers and distributors, suppliers’ or distributors’ failure to meet our standards or requirements, transitioning to new suppliers or distributors, product quality issues, inflation, other factors relating to the suppliers and distributors and the countries in which they are located, food safety warnings or advisories or the prospect of such pronouncements, product recalls, the cancellation of supply or distribution agreements or an inability to renew such arrangements or to find replacements on commercially reasonable terms, or other conditions beyond our control or the control of our Concepts’ franchisees. In addition, in the U.S., the Company and the Company’s KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell franchisee groups are members of  Restaurant Supply Chain Solutions, LLC (“RSCS”), which is a third-party responsible for purchasing certain restaurant products and equipment. The Habit Burger Grill entered into a purchasing agreement with RSCS in 2020. McLane Foodservice, Inc. (“McLane”) serves as the largest distributor for the Company’s KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell Concepts in the U.S.  Any failure or inability of our significant suppliers or distributors, including RSCS or McLane to meet their respective service requirements, could result in shortages or interruptions in the availability of food and other supplies. The loss of key personnel, labor shortages or difficulty finding qualified employees could slow our growth, harm our business and reduce our profitability. Much of our future success depends on the continued availability and service of senior management personnel. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key senior management personnel could harm our business. In addition, our restaurant operations are highly service-oriented and our success depends in part upon our and our Concepts’ franchisees’ ability to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified employees, including franchisee management, restaurant managers and other crew members. The market for qualified employees in the retail food industry is very competitive.  Our and our Concepts’ franchisees may experience a shortage of labor for positions in our restaurants, including due to concern over exposure to COVID-19 and other factors that could decrease the pool of available qualified employees for key functions. Any future inability to recruit and retain qualified individuals may delay our planned use, development or deployment of technology or the planned openings of new restaurants by us and our Concepts’ franchisees which could have a material adverse impact on the operation of our Concepts’ existing restaurants. In addition, strikes, work slowdowns or other job actions may become more common.  In the event of a strike, work slowdown or other labor unrest, the ability to adequately staff our Concepts’ restaurants could be impaired, which could result in reduced revenue and customer claims, and may distract our management from focusing on our business and strategic priorities. Changes in labor and other operating costs could adversely affect our and our franchisees’ results of operations. An increase in the costs of employee wages, benefits and insurance (including workers’ compensation, general liability, property and health) as well as other operating costs such as rent and energy costs could adversely affect our and our franchisees’ operating results.  Such increases in costs could result from general economic or competitive conditions or from government imposition of higher minimum wages at the federal, state or local level, including the potential increase in the federal minimum wage in the U.S. proposed by the new presidential administration.  Moreover, there may be a long-term trend toward higher wages in developing markets.  Any increase in such operating expenses could adversely affect our and our Concepts’ franchisees’ profit margins.  In addition, competition for qualified employees could compel us or our Concepts’ franchisees to pay higher wages to attract or retain key crew members, which could result in higher labor costs and decreased profitability. An increase in food prices may have an adverse impact on our and our Concepts’ franchisees’ profit margins. Our and our Concepts’ franchisees’ businesses depend on reliable sources of large quantities of raw materials such as proteins (including poultry, pork, beef and seafood), cheese, oil, flour and vegetables (including potatoes and lettuce). Raw materials purchased for use in our Concepts’ restaurants are subject to price volatility caused by any fluctuation in aggregate supply and demand, or other external conditions, such as weather conditions, or natural events or disasters that affect expected harvests of such raw materials, taxes and tariffs (including as a result of trade disputes), industry demand, food safety concerns, product recalls, governmental regulation and other factors, all of which are beyond our control and in many instances are unpredictable.  As a result, the historical prices of raw materials used in the operation of our Concepts’ restaurants have fluctuated.  We cannot assure that we or our Concepts’ franchisees will continue to be able to purchase raw materials at reasonable prices, or that the 18 cost of raw materials will remain stable in the future. In addition, a significant increase in gasoline prices could result in the imposition of fuel surcharges by our distributors. Because we and our Concepts’ franchisees provide competitively priced food, we may not have the ability to pass through to our customers the full amount of any commodity price increases. If we and our Concepts’ franchisees are unable to manage the cost of raw materials or to increase the prices of products proportionately, our and our franchisees’ profit margins and return on invested capital may be adversely impacted. Risks Related to our Concepts’ Brands and Reputation Our Concepts’ brands may be harmed or diluted through franchisee and third-party activity. Although we monitor and regulate franchisee activities through our Concepts’ franchise agreements, franchisees or other third parties may refer to or make statements about our Concepts’ brands that do not make proper use of our trademarks or required designations, that improperly alter trademarks or branding, or that are critical of our Concepts’ brands or place our Concepts’ brands in a context that may tarnish their reputation. This may result in dilution of, or harm to, our intellectual property or the value of our Concepts’ brands. Franchisee noncompliance with the terms and conditions of our franchise agreements may reduce the overall goodwill of our Concepts’ brands, whether through the failure to meet health and safety standards (including with respect to additional sanitation protocols and guidelines in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic), engage in quality control or maintain product consistency, or through the participation in improper or objectionable business practices. Moreover, unauthorized third parties, including our Concepts’ current and former franchisees, may use our intellectual property to trade on the goodwill of our Concepts’ brands, resulting in consumer confusion or brand dilution. Any reduction of our Concepts’ brands’ goodwill, consumer confusion, or brand dilution is likely to impact sales, and could materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations. Our success depends substantially on our corporate reputation and on the value and perception of our brands. Our success depends in large part upon our ability and our Concepts’ franchisees’ ability to maintain and enhance our corporate reputation and the value and perception of our brands.  Brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities.  Those perceptions are affected by a variety of factors, including the nutritional content and preparation of our food, the ingredients we use, and the manner in which we source the commodities we use. Consumer acceptance of our offerings is subject to change for a variety of reasons, and some changes can occur rapidly. For example, nutritional, health and other scientific studies and conclusions, which constantly evolve and may have contradictory implications, drive popular opinion, litigation and regulation (including initiatives intended to drive consumer behavior) in ways that may affect perceptions of our Concepts’ brands generally or relative to available alternatives.  In addition, the restaurant industry globally has been subject to claims that the menus and practices of restaurant chains have led to customer health issues, including weight gain and other adverse effects. Publicity about these matters (particularly directed at the quick service and fast-casual segments of the retail food industry) may harm our Concepts’ reputations and adversely affect our business.  Moreover, these types of claims could lead to an increase in the regulation of the content or marketing of our products, including legislation or regulation seeking to tax and/or regulate high-fat foods, foods with high sugar and salt content, or foods otherwise deemed to be “unhealthy,” which could in turn increase costs of compliance and remediation to us and our franchisees. In addition, business or other incidents, whether isolated or recurring, and whether originating from us, our Concepts’ restaurants, franchisees, competitors, governments, suppliers or distributors, can significantly reduce brand value and consumer perception, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation or investigations.  Moreover, our success depends in large part upon our ability to maintain our corporate reputation.  For example, the reputation of our Concepts’ brands could be damaged by claims or perceptions about the quality or safety of our products or the quality or reputation of our suppliers, distributors or franchisees or by claims or perceptions that we, founders of our Concepts, our Concepts’ franchisees or other business partners have acted or are acting in an unethical, illegal, racially-biased or socially irresponsible manner or are not fostering an inclusive and diverse environment, regardless of whether such claims or perceptions are true. Our corporate reputation could also suffer from negative publicity or consumer sentiment regarding Company action or brand imagery, a real or perceived failure of corporate governance, or misconduct by any Company officer or any employee or representative of us or a franchisee.  For example, entities in our supply chain may engage in conduct, including alleged human rights abuses or environmental wrongdoing, and any such conduct could damage our or our Concepts’ brands’ reputations.  Any such incidents (even if resulting from actions of a competitor or franchisee) could cause a decline directly or indirectly in consumer confidence in, or the perception of, our Concepts’ brands and/or our products and reduce consumer demand for our products, which would likely result in lower revenues and profits. 19 There has been an increased public focus, including from U.S. and foreign governmental and nongovernmental authorities, on environmental sustainability matters, including with respect to climate change, greenhouse gases, water resources, packaging and waste, animal health and welfare, deforestation and land use.  We endeavor to conduct our business in a manner which reflects our priority of sustainable stewardship, including with respect to environmental sustainability matters, and we are working to manage the risks and costs to us, our franchisees and our supply chain associated with these types of environmental  sustainability matters.  In addition, as the result of such heightened public focus on environmental sustainability matters, we may face increased pressure to provide expanded disclosure, make or expand commitments, set targets, or establish additional goals and take actions to meet such goals, in connection with such environmental sustainability matters. These matters and our efforts to address them could expose us to market, operational, reputational and execution costs or risks. Risks Related to Government Regulation and Litigation We could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us by increasing our expenses, diverting management attention or subjecting us to significant monetary damages and other remedies. We are regularly involved in legal proceedings, which include regulatory claims or disputes, consumer, personal injury, claims from franchisees employment, real estate related, tort, intellectual property, breach of contract, securities, derivative and other litigation.  See the discussion of legal proceedings in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and these types of lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties (some of which are beyond the Company’s control). Unfavorable rulings or developments may also occur.  In addition, the restaurant industry globally has been subject to claims that relate to the nutritional content of food products, as well as claims that the menus and practices of restaurant chains have led to customer health issues, including weight gain and other adverse effects, and we may become subject to such claims in the future. Moreover, regardless of whether any such lawsuits have merit, or whether we are ultimately held liable or settle, such litigation may be expensive to defend, may divert resources and management attention away from our operations, and may negatively impact our results of operations.  With respect to insured claims, a judgment for monetary damages in excess of any insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.  Any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also adversely affect our Concepts’ reputations, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in, or noncompliance with, governmental regulations may adversely affect our business operations, growth prospects or financial condition. The Company, and our Concepts and their franchisees, are subject to numerous laws and regulations around the world. These laws and regulations change regularly and are increasingly complex.  For example, we are subject to: • The Americans with Disabilities Act in the U.S. and similar state laws that provide protection to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas. • The U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs matters such as minimum wages, and overtime, and the Family and Medical Leave Act as well as a variety of similar state laws which provide protected leave rights to employees. • Federal and state employment laws related to workplace health and safety, non-discrimination, non-harassment, whistleblower protections, and other terms and conditions of employment. • Laws and regulations in government-mandated health care benefits such as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act in the U.S. • Laws and regulations relating to nutritional content, nutritional labeling, product safety, product marketing and menu labeling. • Uncertainties and effects of laws and regulations associated with the implementation of the UK’s withdrawal of membership from the European Union (referred to as “Brexit”), including those relating to tax and trade. • Laws relating to state and local licensing. • Laws relating to the relationship between franchisors and franchisees. • Laws and regulations relating to health, sanitation, food, workplace safety, child labor, including laws regulating the use of certain “hazardous equipment”, building and zoning, and fire safety and prevention. • Laws and regulations relating to union organizing rights and activities, such as the proposed Protecting the Right to Organize Act (the “PRO Act”) in the U.S. • Laws relating to information security, privacy (including the European Union’s GDPR and California’s CCPA and CPRA), cashless payments, and consumer protection. • Laws relating to currency conversion or exchange. • Laws relating to international trade and sanctions. • Tax laws and regulations. • Anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. • Environmental laws and regulations, including with respect to climate change. • Federal and state immigration laws and regulations in the U.S. 20 • Regulations, health guidelines and safety protocols related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Compliance with new or existing laws and regulations could impact our or our Concepts’ franchisees’ operations. The compliance costs associated with these laws and regulations could be substantial.  In addition, if any governmental authority were to adopt and implement a broader standard for determining when two or more otherwise unrelated employers may be found to be a joint employer of the same employees under laws such as the National Labor Relations Act in a manner that is applied generally to franchise relationships (which broader standards in the past have been adopted by U.S. governmental agencies such as the National Labor Relations Board), this could cause us or our Concepts to be liable or held responsible for unfair labor practices and other violations and could subject our Concepts to other liabilities, and/or require our Concepts to conduct collective bargaining negotiations, regarding employees of totally separate, independent employers, most notably our Concepts’ franchisees.  Further, a California law enacted in 2019 adopted an employment classification test to be used when determining employee or independent contractor status which establishes a high threshold to obtain independent contractor status. The proposed federal PRO Act under review by Congress in the U.S. could have similar effects in addition to weakening state “right to work” laws, which could result in increased labor disputes and costs borne by our franchisees and us. These laws and any similar laws enacted at the federal, state or local level, could increase our and our franchisees’ labor costs and decrease profitability or could cause employees of our franchisees to be deemed employees of our Concepts. Any failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could adversely affect our reputation, international expansion efforts, growth prospects and financial results or result in, among other things, litigation, revocation of required licenses, internal investigations, governmental investigations or proceedings, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability.  Publicity relating to any such noncompliance could also harm our Concepts’ reputations and adversely affect our revenues. Failure to comply with anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws could adversely affect our business operations. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and other similar applicable laws prohibiting bribery of government officials and other corrupt practices are the subject of increasing emphasis and enforcement around the world.  There can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, agents, franchisees or other third parties will not take actions in violation of our policies or applicable law, particularly as we expand our operations in emerging markets and elsewhere.  Any such violations or suspected violations could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial fines and significant investigation costs, and could also materially damage our reputation, brands, international expansion efforts and growth prospects, business and operating results.  Publicity relating to any noncompliance or alleged noncompliance could also harm our Concepts’ reputations and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Tax matters, including changes in tax rates or laws, disagreements with taxing authorities, imposition of new taxes and our restructurings could impact our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property, withholding and franchise taxes in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions.  We are also subject to ongoing and/or regular reviews, examinations and audits by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and other taxing authorities with respect to such income and non-income based taxes inside and outside of the U.S.  Our accruals for tax liabilities are based on past experience, interpretations of applicable law, and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities, but such accruals require significant judgment which may be incorrect and may result in payments greater than the amounts accrued.  If the IRS or another taxing authority disagrees with our tax positions, we could face additional tax liabilities, including interest and penalties.  Payment of additional amounts upon final settlement or adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. In addition, we are directly and indirectly affected by new tax laws and regulation and the interpretation of tax laws and regulations worldwide. Changes in laws, regulation or interpretation of existing laws and regulations in the U.S. and other jurisdictions where we are subject to taxation could increase our taxes and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in tax laws or regulations may arise as a result of tax policies proposed by the recently elected U.S. presidential administration.  Changes in tax laws may also arise as a result of tax policy guidance issued by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”), a coalition of member nations including the United States. The OECD guidance, referred to as the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (“BEPS”) Action Plan, does not have the force of law, but certain countries may enact tax legislation, modify tax treaties, and/or increase audit scrutiny based on the BEPS guidance. To the extent BEPS principles are adopted by major jurisdictions in which we or our Concepts operate, it could increase our taxes and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial position. We have in the past and may in the future adapt our entity and operating structure in response to and in compliance with changes in tax laws, regulations, or interpretation of existing laws and regulations.  Such restructurings could result in material incremental tax costs associated with restructuring transactions or operations of the structure.  In addition, public perception that we are not paying a sufficient amount of taxes could damage our Concepts’ reputations, which could harm our profitability. 21 Risks Related to the Yum China Spin-Off The Yum China spin-off and certain related transactions could result in substantial U.S. tax liability. We received opinions of outside counsel substantially to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Yum China spin-off and certain related transactions qualified as generally tax-free under Sections 355 and 361 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.  The opinions relied on various facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations as to factual matters and undertakings (including with respect to future conduct) made by Yum China and us. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, we may not be able to rely on these opinions of outside counsel. Accordingly, notwithstanding receipt of the opinions of outside counsel, the conclusions reached in the tax opinions may be challenged by the IRS.  Because the opinions are not binding on the IRS or the courts, there can be no assurance that the IRS or the courts will not prevail in any such challenge. If, notwithstanding receipt of any opinion, the IRS were to conclude that the Yum China spin-off was taxable, in general, we would recognize taxable gain as if we had sold the Yum China common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value.  In addition, each U.S. holder of our Common Stock who received shares of Yum China common stock in connection with the spin-off transaction would generally be treated as having received a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares of Yum China common stock received.  That distribution would be taxable to each such U.S. stockholder as a dividend to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits.  For each such U.S. stockholder, any amount that exceeded our earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of such stockholder’s tax basis in our shares of Common Stock with any remaining amount being taxed as a capital gain. The Yum China spin-off may be subject to China indirect transfer tax. In February 2015, the Chinese State Administration of Taxation (“SAT”) issued the Bulletin on Several Issues of Enterprise Income Tax on Income Arising from Indirect Transfers of Property by Non-resident Enterprises (“Bulletin 7”).  Pursuant to Bulletin 7, an “indirect transfer” of Chinese taxable assets, including equity interests in a China resident enterprise (“Chinese interests”), by a non-resident enterprise, may be recharacterized and treated as a direct transfer of Chinese taxable assets, if such arrangement does not have reasonable commercial purpose and the transferor has avoided payment of Chinese enterprise income tax.  Using general anti-tax avoidance provisions, the SAT may treat an indirect transfer as a direct transfer of Chinese interests if the transfer has avoided Chinese tax by way of an arrangement without reasonable commercial purpose.  As a result, gains derived from such indirect transfer may be subject to Chinese enterprise income tax, and the transferee or other person who is obligated to pay for the transfer would be obligated to withhold the applicable taxes, currently at a rate of up to 10% of the capital gain in the case of an indirect transfer of equity interests in a China resident enterprise. We evaluated the potential applicability of Bulletin 7 in connection with the Separation in the form of a tax free restructuring and believe it is more likely than not that Bulletin 7 does not apply.  We believe that the restructuring has reasonable commercial purpose. However, there are significant uncertainties regarding what constitutes a reasonable commercial purpose, how the safe harbor provisions for group restructurings are to be interpreted and how the Chinese tax authorities will ultimately view the spin-off.  As a result, our position could be challenged by the Chinese tax authorities resulting in a tax at a rate of 10% assessed on the difference between the fair market value and the tax basis of Yum China.  As our tax basis in Yum China was minimal, the amount of such a tax could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. Risks Related to Consumer Discretionary Spending and Macroeconomic Conditions Our business may be adversely impacted by changes in consumer discretionary spending and economic conditions in the U.S. and international markets. As a restaurant company dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, we (and our franchisees) are sensitive to changes in or uncertainty regarding macroeconomic conditions in the U.S. and in other regions of the world where our Concepts and Concepts’ franchisees operate.   Some of the factors that impact discretionary consumer spending include unemployment and underemployment rates, fluctuations in the level of disposable income, the price of gasoline and other inflationary pressures, stock market performance and changes in the level of consumer confidence.  These and other macroeconomic factors could have an adverse effect on our or our franchisees’ sales, profitability or development plans, which could harm our financial condition and operating results.  In this regard, we and our franchisees have been adversely impacted by, and may continue to be adversely impacted by, ongoing negative macroeconomic conditions in the U.S. and other regions of the world where our Concepts and Concepts’ franchisees operate arising from the COVID-19 pandemic, including elevated unemployment and underemployment levels, and decreased consumer spending and consumer confidence,  In addition, our business in the U.S. and 22 international regions could be adversely impacted by various factors (which may be beyond our control), including natural disasters, geopolitical events, terrorism, political, financial or social instability, terrorism, boycott, social unrest, or other events that lead to avoidance of public places or restrictions on public gatherings such as in our and our franchisees’ restaurants. Risks Related to Competition The retail food industry is highly competitive. Our Concepts’ restaurants compete with international, national and regional restaurant chains as well as locally-owned restaurants, and the retail food industry in which our Concepts operate is highly competitive with respect to price and quality of food products, new product development, digital engagement, advertising levels and promotional initiatives (including the frequent use by our competitors of price discounting, such as through value meal menu options, coupons and other methods), customer service, reputation, restaurant location, and attractiveness and maintenance of properties. In addition, our Concepts compete within the retail food industry for management and hourly personnel, suitable real estate sites, and qualified franchisees. If consumer or dietary preferences change, if our marketing efforts and/or launch of new products are unsuccessful, or if our Concepts’ restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other retail food outlets in new and existing markets, our and our franchisees’ businesses could be adversely affected. Moreover, the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a disruption of consumer routines, the implementation of employer “work-from-home” policies, reduced business and recreational travel and changes in consumer behavior, and it is difficult to fully assess the impacts of such developments on us or our Concepts, or the extent to which any such consumer patterns may continue after the COVID-19 pandemic has ended. We also face growing competition as a result of convergence in grocery, convenience, deli and restaurant services, including the offering by the grocery industry of convenient meals, including pizzas and entrees with side dishes.  Competition from delivery aggregators and other food delivery services has increased in recent years, particularly in urbanized areas, and this trend, which has accelerated following the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, is expected to continue to increase. Increased competition could have an adverse effect on sales, profitability or development plans, which could harm our or our franchisees’ financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness makes us more sensitive to adverse economic conditions, may limit our ability to plan for or respond to significant changes in our business, and requires a significant amount of cash to service our debt payment obligations that we may be unable to generate or obtain. As of December 31, 2020, our total outstanding short-term borrowings and long-term debt was approximately $10.8 billion. Subject to the limits contained in the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness, we may incur additional debt from time to time, which would increase the risks related to our high level of indebtedness. Specifically, our high level of indebtedness could have important potential consequences, including, but not limited to: • increasing our vulnerability to, and reducing our flexibility to plan for and respond to, adverse economic and industry conditions and changes in our business and the competitive environment, including ongoing adverse economic conditions arising from the COVID-19 pandemic; • requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends, share repurchases or other corporate purposes; • increasing our vulnerability to a downgrade of our credit rating, which could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity and access to capital markets; • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • placing us at a disadvantage compared to other less leveraged competitors or competitors with comparable debt at more favorable interest rates; • increasing our exposure to the risk of increased interest rates insofar as current and future borrowings are subject to variable rates of interest; • increasing our exposure to the risk of discontinuance, replacement or modification of certain reference rates, including as the result of the upcoming discontinuance of LIBOR, which are used to calculate applicable interest rates of our indebtedness and certain derivative instruments that hedge interest rate risk; • making it more difficult for us to repay, refinance or satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds in the future and increasing the cost of any such borrowing; • imposing restrictive covenants on our operations as the result of the terms of our indebtedness, which, if not complied with, could result in an event of default, which in turn, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the applicable debt, and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies; and 23 • increasing our exposure to risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency as we earn profits in a variety of currencies around the world and our debt is primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. There is no assurance that we will generate cash flow from operations or that future debt or equity financings will be available to us to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. If conditions related to the COVID-19 pandemic result in significant disruptions to capital and financial markets, our cost of borrowing, our ability to access capital on favorable terms and our overall liquidity could be adversely impacted. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in amounts sufficient to pay our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.  As a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. There is no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flow or refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Introduction and Overview The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”), should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements (“Financial Statements”) in Item 8 and the Forward-Looking Statements and the Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A.  All Note references herein refer to the Notes to the Financial Statements.  Tabular amounts are displayed in millions of U.S. dollars except per share and unit count amounts, or as otherwise specifically identified.  Percentages may not recompute due to rounding. Yum! Brands, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to herein as the "Company", “YUM”, "we", "us" or "our") franchise or operate a system of over 50,000 restaurants in more than 150 countries and territories, primarily under the concepts of KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and The Habit Burger Grill (collectively, the "Concepts").  The Company's KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell brands are global leaders of the chicken, pizza and Mexican-style food categories, respectively.  The Habit Burger Grill, a concept we acquired on March 18, 2020, is a fast-casual restaurant concept specializing in made-to-order chargrilled burgers, sandwiches and more.  Of the over 50,000 restaurants, 98% are operated by franchisees. As of December 31, 2020, YUM consists of four operating segments: • The KFC Division which includes our worldwide operations of the KFC concept • The Pizza Hut Division which includes our worldwide operations of the Pizza Hut concept • The Taco Bell Division which includes our worldwide operations of the Taco Bell concept • The Habit Burger Grill Division which includes our worldwide operations of the Habit Burger Grill concept Through our Recipe for Growth and Good we intend to unlock the growth potential of our Concepts and YUM, drive increased collaboration across our Concepts and geographies and consistently deliver better customer experiences, improved unit economics and higher rates of growth.  Key enablers include accelerated use of technology and better leverage of our systemwide scale. Our Recipe for Growth is based on four key drivers: • Unrivaled Culture and Talent: Leverage our culture and people capability to fuel brand performance and franchise success • Unmatched Operating Capability: Recruit and equip the best restaurant operators in the world to deliver great customer experiences • Relevant, Easy and Distinctive Brands: Innovate and elevate iconic restaurant brands people trust and champion • Bold Restaurant Development: Drive market and franchise expansion with strong economics and value Our global citizenship and sustainability strategy, called the Recipe for Good, reflects our priorities for socially responsible growth, risk management and sustainable stewardship of our people, food and planet. On October 11, 2016, YUM announced our transformation plans to drive global expansion of our KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell brands (“YUM's Strategic Transformation Initiatives”) following the spin-off of our China business into an independent publicly-traded company under the name of Yum China Holdings, Inc. (“Yum China”).   At this time, we established transformation goals to be met by the end of 2019 including becoming: • More Focused.   By focusing on four growth drivers similar to those that make up our Recipe for Growth above we accelerated system sales growth to 8% in 2019 (excluding the impacts of the 53 rd week and foreign currency translation). • More Franchised. The Company successfully increased franchise restaurant ownership to 98% as of the end of 2018. • More Efficient. The Company revamped its financial profile, improving the efficiency of its organization and cost structure globally, by: • R educing annual capital expenditures associated with Company-operated restaurant maintenance and other projects and funded additional capital for new Company units through the refranchising of existing Company units.  Capital spending in 2019 net of refranchising proceeds was $86 million. • Lowering General and administrative expenses ("G&A") to 1.7% of system sales in 2019; and 31 • Maintaining an optimized capital structure of ~5.0x Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (“EBITDA”) net leverage. From 2017 through 2019, we returned $6.5 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and cash dividends. We funded these shareholder returns through a combination of refranchising proceeds, free cash flow generation and maintenance of our ~5.0x EBITDA consolidated net leverage. We generated pre-tax proceeds of $2.8 billion through our refranchising initiatives to achieve targeted franchise ownership of 98%.  Refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of this MD&A for additional details. As a result of the impacts on our business due to the COVID-19 pandemic, certain measures we established as part of our transformation goals were negatively impacted in 2020. For the full year 2020, G&A, excluding the impact of Special Items, represented 1.9% of consolidated system sales, primarily due to sales pressures resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. While we took certain austerity measures to reduce G&A spending such as lower travel related costs and a reduction of our Chief Executive Officer's salary, these reductions were offset by accelerated digital and technology spending to enhance our customer experience and off-premise capabilities.  We expect our G&A as a percentage of consolidated system sales to move back toward our historical target of 1.7% as sustained growth resumes.   Additionally, during 2020 our EBITDA was negatively impacted by the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, which increased our consolidated leverage, net of available cash. We currently estimate we will grow back into our ~5.0x EBITDA consolidated net leverage by second quarter 2021. Going forward, we expect to: • Maintain a capital structure of ~5.0x EBITDA consolidated net leverage; • Invest capital in a manner consistent with an asset light, franchisor model; and • Allocate G&A in an efficient manner that provides leverage to operating profit growth while at the same time opportunistically investing in strategic growth initiatives. We intend for this MD&A to provide the reader with information that will assist in understanding our results of operations, including performance metrics that management uses to assess the Company's performance. Throughout this MD&A, we commonly discuss the following performance metrics: • Same-store sales growth is the estimated percentage change in system sales of all restaurants that have been open and in the YUM system for one year or more, including those temporarily closed. From time-to-time restaurants may be temporarily closed due to remodeling or image enhancement, rebuilding, natural disasters, health epidemic or pandemic, landlord disputes or other issues. Throughout 2020 we had a significant number of restaurants that were temporarily closed, including restaurants closed due to government and landlord restrictions, as a result of COVID-19.  The system sales of restaurants we deem temporarily closed remain in our base for purposes of determining same-store sales growth and the restaurants remain in our unit count (see below). We believe same-store sales growth is useful to investors because our results are heavily dependent on the results of our Concepts' existing store base.  Additionally, same-store sales growth is reflective of the strength of our Brands, the effectiveness of our operational and advertising initiatives and local economic and consumer trends. In 2020, when calculating same-store sales growth we also included in our prior year base the sales of stores that were added as a result of our acquisition of The Habit Restaurants, Inc. on March 18, 2020, and that were open for one year or more.  In 2019, when calculating same-store sales growth we also included in our prior year base the sales of stores that were added as a result of the Telepizza strategic alliance in December 2018 and that were open for one year or more.  See additional discussion of the acquisition of The Habit Restaurants, Inc. and Telepizza strategic alliance within this MD&A. • Net new unit growth reflects new unit openings offset by permanent store closures, by us and our franchisees. To determine whether a restaurant meets the definition of a unit we consider whether the restaurant has operations that are ongoing and independent from another YUM unit, serves the primary product of one of our Concepts, operates under a separate franchise agreement (if operated by a franchisee) and has substantial and sustainable sales.  We believe net new unit growth is useful to investors because we depend on net new units for a significant portion of our growth.  Additionally, net new unit growth is generally reflective of the economic returns to us and our franchisees from opening and operating our Concept restaurants. • System sales, System sales excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation ("FX"), and System sales excluding FX and the impact of the 53 rd week in 2019 for our U.S. subsidiaries and certain international subsidiaries that operate on a weekly period calendar.  System sales reflect the results of all restaurants regardless of ownership, including Company- 32 owned and franchise restaurants. Sales at franchise restaurants typically generate ongoing franchise and license fees for the Company at a rate of 3% to 6% of sales. Increasingly, customers are paying a fee to a third party to deliver or facilitate the ordering of our Concepts' products. We also include in System sales any portion of the amount customers pay these third parties for which the third party is obligated to pay us a license fee as a percentage of such amount. Franchise restaurant sales and fees paid by customers to third parties to deliver or facilitate the ordering of our Concepts' products are not included in Company sales on the Consolidated Statements of Income; however, any resulting franchise and license fees we receive are included in the Company's revenues. We believe System sales growth is useful to investors as a significant indicator of the overall strength of our business as it incorporates our primary revenue drivers, Company and franchise same-store sales as well as net unit growth. • Company restaurant profit ("Restaurant profit") is defined as Company sales less expenses incurred directly by our Company-owned restaurants in generating Company sales. Company restaurant margin as a percentage of sales is defined as Restaurant profit divided by Company sales.  Restaurant profit is useful to investors as it provides a measure of profitability for our Company-owned restaurants. In addition to the results provided in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States of America ("GAAP"), the Company provides the following non-GAAP measurements. • Diluted Earnings Per Share excluding Special Items (as defined below); • Effective Tax Rate excluding Special Items; • Core Operating Profit and Core Operating Profit excluding the impact of the 53rd week in 2019.  Core Operating Profit excludes Special Items and FX and we use Core Operating Profit for the purposes of evaluating performance internally. These non-GAAP measurements are not intended to replace the presentation of our financial results in accordance with GAAP. Rather, the Company believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP measurements provide additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations. Special Items are not included in any of our Division segment results as the Company does not believe they are indicative of our ongoing operations due to their size and/or nature.  Our chief operating decision maker does not consider the impact of Special Items when assessing segment performance. Certain performance metrics and non-GAAP measurements are presented excluding the impact of FX. These amounts are derived by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates. We believe the elimination of the FX impact provides better year-to-year comparability without the distortion of foreign currency fluctuations. For 2019 we provided Core Operating Profit excluding the impact of the 53rd week and System sales excluding FX and the impact of the 53rd week to further enhance the comparability given the 53rd week that was part of our fiscal calendar in 2019. Results of Operations Summary All comparisons within this summary are versus the same period a year ago and unless otherwise stated include the impact of a 53rd week in 2019.  For discussion of our results of operations for 2019 compared to 2018, refer to the Management's Discussion  and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Part II, Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the SEC on February 19, 2020. For 2020, GAAP diluted EPS decreased 29% to $2.94 per share, and diluted EPS, excluding Special Items, increased 2% to $3.62 per share. 33 2020 financial highlights: Additionally: • During the year, net units increased by 183 units (including our acquisition of The Habit Burger Grill in the first quarter of 2020). • During the year, we repurchased 2.4 million shares totaling $250 million at an average price of $103. • During the year, we recognized pre-tax investment income of $69 million related to the change in fair value of our investment in Grubhub, Inc. common stock that we sold in the third quarter of 2020, which added $0.17 to diluted EPS for the year.  When coupled with $77 million of pre-tax investment expense in 2019, which resulted in a negative $0.19 impact to diluted EPS, our Grubhub investment favorably impacted year-over-year diluted EPS growth by $0.36. • Foreign currency translation impacted Divisional Operating Profit unfavorably for the year by $9 million. 34 Worldwide GAAP Results (a) See Note 4 for the number of shares used in this calculation. Performance Metrics 35 Our system sales breakdown by Company and franchise sales was as follows: (a) Company sales represents sales from our Company-operated stores as presented on our Consolidated Statements of Income. 36 (b) The foreign currency impact on System sales is presented in relation only to the immediately preceding year presented.  When determining applicable System sales growth percentages, the System sales excluding FX for the current year should be compared to the prior year System sales prior to adjustment for the prior year FX impact. (c) System sales for the Habit Burger Grill Division is shown since our March 18, 2020 acquisition date. 37 38 (a) Due to their size and volatility we have reflected as Special Items those refranchising gains and losses that were recorded in connection with our previously announced plans to have at least 98% franchise restaurant ownership by the end of 2018. As such, refranchising gains and losses recorded during 2020 as Special Items primarily include true-ups to refranchising gains and losses recorded prior to December 31, 2018.  Refranchising gains and losses recorded during 2019 as Special Items primarily include gains or losses associated with sales of underlying real estate associated with stores that were franchised as of December 31, 2018, or true-ups to refranchising gains and losses recorded prior to December 31, 2018. During the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, we recorded net refranchising gains of $8 million, $12 million and $540 million, respectively, that have been reflected as Special Items. Additionally, during the years ended December 31, 2020, and 2019 we recorded refranchising gains of $26 million and $25 million, respectively, that have not been reflected as Special Items as such amounts are considered indicative of our expected ongoing refranchising activity.  These net gains relate to the refranchising of restaurants in 2020 and 2019 that were not part of our aforementioned plans to achieve 98% franchise ownership. (b) In May 2017, we reached an agreement with our Pizza Hut U.S. franchisees that improved brand marketing alignment, accelerated enhancements in operations and technology and that included a permanent commitment to incremental advertising as well as digital and technology contributions by franchisees. In connection with this agreement, we recognized charges of $5 million, $13 million and $6 million in the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, related to operating investments required as part of this agreement. The majority of these costs were recorded within Franchise and property expenses. Based on their nature and the significance in related spending in 2017, these charges have been reflected as Special Items. (c) In October 2016, we announced our strategic transformation plans to drive global expansion of the KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell brands ("YUM's Strategic Transformation Initiatives") following the then anticipated spin-off of our China business (the "Separation") on October 31, 2016, into an independent, publicly-traded company under the name of Yum China Holdings, Inc. ("Yum China"). Major features of the Company’s strategic transformation plans involved being more focused on the development of our three brands, increasing our franchise ownership and creating a leaner, more efficient cost structure. We incurred charges of $8 million related to our Strategic Transformation Initiatives in the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily recorded in G&A, including contract termination costs and relocation and severance costs for restaurant-support center employees. Due to the scope of these initiatives as well as the significance in related spending in 2017 and 2016, these charges were recognized as Special Items. (d) During the second quarter of 2019, we recorded charges of $8 million and $2 million to Other (income) expense and Interest expense, net, respectively, related to cash payments in excess of our recorded liability to settle contingent consideration associated with our 2013 acquisition of the KFC Turkey and Pizza Hut Turkey businesses. Consistent with prior adjustments to the recorded contingent consideration we have reflected this as a Special Item. (e) Tax Benefit (Expense) on Special Items was determined based upon the impact of the nature, as well as the jurisdiction of the respective individual components within Special Items. Additionally, we increased our Income tax provision by $34 million in the fourth quarter of 2019 to record a reserve against and by $19 million in the second quarter of 2018 to correct an error related to the tax recorded on a prior year divestiture, the effects of which were previously recorded as a Special Item. (f) In the fourth quarter of 2019, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain intellectual property rights. As a result of the transfer of certain of these rights, largely to subsidiaries in the United Kingdom (“UK”), we received a step-up in tax basis to current fair value under applicable tax law. To the extent this step-up in tax basis will be amortizable against future taxable income, we recognized one-time deferred tax benefits of $3 million and $226 million as a Special Item in the quarters ended December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. During the quarter ended September 30, 2020, the UK Finance Act 2020 was enacted resulting in an increase in the UK corporate tax rate from 17% to 19%. As a result, in the quarter ended September 30, 2020, we remeasured the related deferred tax asset originally recorded in the fourth quarter of 2019. This remeasurement resulted in the recognition of an additional $25 million deferred tax benefit as a Special Item in the quarter ended September 30, 2020. (g) In 2018, we recorded a $35 million decrease related to our provisional tax expense recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017 associated with the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 ("Tax Act") that was reported as a Special Item.  We also recorded a Special Items tax benefit of $31 million in 2018 related to 2018 U.S. foreign tax credits that became realizable directly as a result of the impact of deemed repatriation tax expense associated with the Tax Act. 39 (h) The foreign currency impact on reported Operating Profit is presented in relation only to the immediately preceding year presented.  When determining applicable Core Operating Profit Growth percentages, the Core Operating Profit for the current year should be compared to the prior year Operating Profit, prior to adjustment for the prior year FX impact. Items Impacting Reported Results and/or Expected to Impact Future Results The following items impacted reported results in 2020 and/or 2019 and/or are expected to impact future results.  See also the Detail of Special Items section of this M&DA for other items similarly impacting results. COVID-19 In late 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus, COVID-19, was first detected and in March 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a global pandemic. Throughout 2020, COVID-19 has spread throughout the U.S. and the rest of the world and governmental authorities have implemented measures to reduce the spread of COVID-19. These measures include restrictions on travel outside the home and other limitations on business and other activities as well as encouraging social distancing. As a result of COVID-19, we and our franchisees have experienced significant store closures and instances of reduced store-level operations, including reduced operating hours and dining-room closures. Our results were significantly impacted by the impacts of COVID-19 in the year ended December 31, 2020, as evidenced by our worldwide same-store sales decline of 6%. The impact on our sales in each of our markets has been dependent on the timing, severity and duration of the outbreak, measures implemented by government authorities to reduce the spread of COVID-19, as well as our reliance on dine-in sales in the market. Overall, our sales declines have been primarily driven by temporary store closures, which peaked in early April at about 11,000 restaurants. From that date, temporarily closed restaurants gradually reopened until, as of the end of our third quarter, we had approximately 1,100 units temporarily closed. We continued to see reopenings through the balance of the fourth-quarter; however, due to the second-wave impacts of COVID-19, including increased government restrictions, temporary closures climbed back to approximately 1,000 as of February 4, 2021. As a result, roughly 98% of our system is currently open in a full or limited capacity. Geographies experiencing temporary closures have evolved and we are now seeing more closures in Europe, Canada and the Middle East, offset by some re-openings in Latin America and India. Assets located in malls, transportation centers, airports and other similar locations continue to be pressured, making up many of the temporary closures. In addition to the loss of sales due to restaurants being temporarily closed, we have also lost sales due to the significant number of our open restaurants subject to dining room closures or other limitations on access. We have been able to mitigate the loss of sales due to dining room closures or other limitations on access through the strength of our off-premise channels, aided by increasing consumer access to our brands via digital channels.  Our worldwide same-store sales decline of 1% for the fourth quarter of 2020 represents an improvement from the same-store sales declines of 7%, 15% and 2% in the respective first, second and third quarters of 2020. The COVID-19 situation is ongoing, and its dynamic nature makes it difficult to forecast any impacts on the Company's 2021 results. The ultimate pace of recovery will largely depend on the pace of restaurant reopenings and the continuation of current sales trends, although we expect continuing adverse impacts from COVID-19.  In addition, for our restaurants that prominently feature drive-thru, carryout and delivery options, COVID-19 has in many cases contributed to an increase in sales during 2020.   If the impact of COVID-19 recedes, in-person dining restrictions are lifted or lessened and the restaurant industry in general returns to more normal operations, the benefits to sales experienced by certain of our restaurants, including our Pizza Hut delivery restaurants, could wane and our results could be negatively impacted.  As 98% of our restaurants are operated by approximately 2,000 independent franchisees across the world, we are closely monitoring the impact of COVID-19 on our franchisees' financial condition. Net New Unit Growth In addition to the restaurants that have been, or continue to be, temporarily closed during 2020, the uncertainties associated with COVID-19 contributed to fewer new restaurant openings and increased permanent restaurant closures during 2020 versus both our recent history and expectations. In addition to permanent closures due to the impacts of COVID-19, the Pizza Hut system also experienced increased permanent closures of certain asset types primarily due to business model pressures as discussed in the following paragraph. For the year ended December 31, 2020, our Concepts collectively opened 2,423 new units while permanently closing 2,516 units. While net new unit growth at each of KFC, Taco Bell and The Habit Burger Grill was lower than expected in 2020, each Concept realized positive net new unit growth for the year.  Pizza Hut experienced a net new unit decline of 1,064 restaurants in 40 2020, largely due to 1,745 global closures, including 867 closures in the U.S., nearly 300 of which were stores operated by NPC International, Inc. ("NPC") as discussed in the following paragraph.  These global closures, which were largely underperforming or low volume casual dining-based and license units, have hastened the transition of the Pizza Hut system to a more delivery-focused and modern estate, which we believe will optimize our ability to grow the Pizza Hut system going forward. However, these and continued closures within our Pizza Hut Division will present a headwind to the Division's net unit and operating profit growth in 2021. NPC, our largest Pizza Hut U.S. franchisee, filed voluntary petitions on July 1, 2020, to restructure under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Texas. In connection with the bankruptcy filing, we consented to up to 300 mutually selected closures of underperforming units, primarily dine-in assets. These units were largely closed during the quarter ended September 30, 2020. In January 2021, Flynn Restaurant Group, an existing YUM franchisee, announced its intention to acquire NPC’s approximately 950 remaining Pizza Hut U.S. restaurants. Investment in Grubhub, Inc. ("Grubhub") In April of 2018 we purchased 2.8 million shares of Grubhub common stock for $200 million.  In the quarter ended September 30, 2020, we sold our entire investment in Grubhub and received proceeds of $206 million.  While we held our investment in Grubhub common stock we recognized changes in the fair value in our investment in our Consolidated Statements of Income.  For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, we recognized pre-tax investment income of $69 million, pre-tax investment expense of $77 million and pre-tax investment income of $14 million, respectively. The Habit Restaurants, Inc. Acquisition On March 18, 2020, we acquired The Habit Restaurants, Inc. for total cash consideration of $408 million, net of cash acquired. We have reflected the ongoing results of Habit Burger Grill’s operations from March 18, 2020 through December 31, 2020, in our Financial Statements. These ongoing results had an insignificant impact on our consolidated results of operations. Additionally, we have included the system sales of Habit Burger Grill for the period from March 18, 2020 through December 31, 2020, in our consolidated system sales and reflected Habit Burger Grill’s same-store sales results for this same period in our consolidated same-store sales results, as applicable, for the year ended December 31, 2020. Consolidated system sales in 2020, excluding the impact of FX and the lapping of the 53rd week in 2019, were positively impacted by one percentage point due to the inclusion of Habit Burger Grill while consolidated same-store sales results were not impacted. As a result of the impacts of COVID-19 on the results of Habit Burger Grill’s operations, as well as general market conditions, we recorded an after-tax impairment charge of $107 million in the first quarter of 2020 related to the goodwill arising from the preliminary purchase price allocation associated with the acquisition. As we continued to refine our preliminary purchase price allocation for Habit in the quarter ended September 30, 2020, the after-tax impairment charge was adjusted upward by $4 million.  We have reflected this impairment as a Special Item, resulting in a Special Item EPS charge for the year ended December 31, 2020, of approximately $0.36. See Note 3. Extra Week in 2019 Fiscal 2019 included a 53rd week for all of our U.S. and certain international subsidiaries that operate on a period calendar.  See Note 2 for additional details related to our fiscal calendar.  The following table summarizes the estimated impact of the 53rd week on Revenues and Operating Profit for the year ended December 31, 2019.  The 53rd week in 2019 favorably impacted Diluted EPS by $0.05 per share. 41 KFC Division The KFC Division has 25,000 units, 84% of which are located outside the U.S.  Additionally, 99% of the KFC Division units were operated by franchisees as of the end of 2020. 42 Company sales and Restaurant margin percentage In 2020, the decrease in Company sales, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation and lapping the 53rd week in 2019, was driven by refranchising and company same-store sales declines of 6%, partially offset by net new unit growth. In 2020, the decrease in Restaurant margin percentage was driven by transaction declines and increased restaurant costs, including one-time bonuses and other costs incurred as a result of COVID-19, partially offset by the favorable impact of higher guest check. Franchise and property revenues In 2020, the decrease in Franchise and property revenues, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation and lapping the 53rd week in 2019, was driven by franchise same-store sales declines of 9%, partially offset by net new unit growth. G&A In 2020, the increase in G&A, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation and lapping the 53rd week in 2019, was driven by higher professional fees, higher share-based compensation and higher salaries, partially offset by lower travel related costs and lower incentive compensation. Operating Profit In 2020, the decrease in Operating Profit, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation and lapping the 53rd week in 2019, was driven by same-store sales declines, partially offset by net new unit growth. Pizza Hut Division The Pizza Hut Division has 17,639 units, 63% of which are located outside the U.S.  Over 99% of the Pizza Hut Division units were operated by franchisees as of the end of 2020.  The Pizza Hut Division uses multiple distribution channels including delivery, dine-in and express (e.g. airports) and includes units operating under both the Pizza Hut and Telepizza brands. On December 30, 2018, the Company consummated a strategic alliance with Telepizza Group S.A. (“Telepizza”), to be the master franchisee of Pizza Hut in Latin America and portions of Europe, which added approximately 1,300 Telepizza units to our Pizza Hut Division unit count on December 30, 2018. The addition of the Telepizza units positively impacted 2019 Pizza Hut Division system sales growth, excluding the impacts of foreign currency and 53rd week, by 5 percentage points.  The impact to Operating Profit for the year ended December 31, 2019, as a result of the strategic alliance was not significant. 43 Company sales In 2020, the increase in Company sales, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation and lapping the 53rd week in 2019, was driven by the acquisition of stores in the UK in the quarter ended September 30, 2019, and company same-store sales growth of 4%. Franchise and property revenues In 2020, the decrease in Franchise and property revenues, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation and lapping the 53rd week in 2019, was driven by franchise same-store sales declines of 6% and net new unit declines. G&A In 2020, the increase in G&A, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation and lapping the 53rd week in 2019, was driven by higher share-based compensation, higher professional fees, higher incentive compensation and higher headcount, partially offset by lower travel related costs. 44 Operating Profit In 2020, the decrease in Operating Profit, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation and lapping the 53rd week in 2019, was driven by same-store sales declines, higher G&A, net new unit declines, and the write-off of software no longer being used, partially offset by recoveries on past due receivables. Taco Bell Division The Taco Bell Division has 7,427 units, 92% of which are in the U.S.  The Company owned 7% of the Taco Bell units in the U.S. as of the end of 2020. Company sales and Restaurant margin percentage In 2020, the decrease in Company Sales, excluding the impact of lapping the 53rd week in 2019, was driven by company same-store sales declines of 3% and refranchising offset by net new unit growth. 45 In 2020, the increase in restaurant margin percentage was driven by the favorable impact of higher guest check, lower restaurant operating costs such as labor and repairs and maintenance costs due to dining room closures as a result of COVID-19 and lower advertising costs, partially offset by transaction declines and a COVID-19 related bonus for restaurant employees. Franchise and property revenues In 2020, Franchise and property revenues were flat for the year, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation and lapping the 53rd week in 2019, as net new unit growth was offset by franchise same-store sales declines of 1%. G&A In 2020, the decrease in G&A, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation and lapping the 53rd week in 2019, was driven by lower incentive compensation, lower travel related costs, decreased professional fees and decreased salaries, partially offset by higher share-based compensation. Operating Profit In 2020, the increase in Operating Profit, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation and lapping the 53rd week in 2019, was driven by lower G&A costs, net new unit growth and lower restaurant operating costs partially offset by same-store sales declines and higher restaurant asset impairment charges. Habit Burger Grill Division The Habit Burger Grill Division has 287 units, the vast majority of which are in the U.S.  The Company owned 91% of the Habit Burger Grill units in the U.S. as of December 31, 2020.  From March 18, 2020, the date we acquired The Habit Burger Grill, through December 31, 2020, we reported a same-store sales decline of 11%.  Total revenues and Operating loss were $347 million and $22 million, respectively, for the period from March 18, 2020 through December 31, 2020.  During this period we also opened 14 gross new restaurants. Corporate & Unallocated Corporate and unallocated G&A In 2020, the increase in Corporate and unallocated G&A expense was driven by charitable contributions of $50 million related to our “Unlocking Opportunity Initiative” and $25 million related to COVID-19 relief (see Note 5).  The increase was also driven by costs associated with a voluntary early retirement program offered to our U.S. based employees and a related worldwide severance program (see Note 5), higher professional fees including costs associated with the acquisition of The Habit Burger Grill and higher share-based compensation, partially offset by lower expenses related to our incentive and deferred compensation programs. 46 Unallocated Franchise and property expenses Unallocated Franchise and property expenses reflect charges related to the Pizza Hut U.S. Transformation Agreement and/or the KFC U.S. Acceleration Agreement. Unallocated Other income (expense) Unallocated Other income (expense) for the year ended December 31, 2020, includes a charge of $144 million related to the impairment of Habit Burger Grill goodwill (see Note 3). The year ended December 31, 2019, includes a settlement of contingent consideration charge of $8 million associated with our 2013 acquisition of the KFC Turkey and Pizza Hut Turkey businesses (see Note 8). Interest expense, net The increase in Interest expense, net for 2020 was driven by increased outstanding borrowings and $34 million of premiums paid and other costs associated with extinguishment of debt (see Note 5), partially offset by a decrease in the rate on our floating rate debt. Consolidated Cash Flows Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,305 million in 2020 compared to $1,315 million in 2019.  The decrease was largely driven by a decrease in Operating Profit before Special Items and higher charitable contributions reflected as Special Items, partially offset by lower advertising spending. Net cash used in investing activities was $335 million in 2020 compared to $88 million in 2019.  The increase was primarily driven by the acquisition of The Habit Restaurants, Inc. and lower refranchising proceeds in the current year, partially offset by proceeds from the sale of our investment in Grubhub, Inc. common stock and lower capital spending. Net cash used in financing activities was $738 million in 2020 compared to $938 million in 2019. The decrease was primarily driven by lower share repurchases, partially offset by lower net borrowings. Consolidated Financial Condition Our Consolidated Balance Sheet was impacted by the acquisition of The Habit Restaurants, Inc. (See Note 3). Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash generated by operations and our revolving facilities.  As of December 31, 2020, we had Cash and cash equivalents of $730 million. We have historically generated substantial cash flows from our extensive franchise operations, which require a limited YUM investment, and from the operations of our Company-owned stores. Our annual operating cash flows have historically been in excess of $1 billion.  Decreases in operating cash flows from the operation of fewer Company-owned stores in recent years due to refranchising have been offset, and are expected to continue to be offset, with savings generated from decreased capital investment and G&A required to support company operations. We believe that our existing cash on hand, cash from operations and availability under our Revolving Facility (as defined below), will be sufficient to fund our operations, anticipated capital expenditures and debt repayment obligations over the next twelve months. Our balance sheet often reflects a working capital deficit, which is not uncommon in our industry and is also historically common for YUM.  Our royalty receivables from franchisees are generally due within 30 days of the period in which the related sales occur and Company sales are paid in cash or by credit card (which is quickly converted into cash). Substantial amounts of cash received have historically been either returned to shareholders or invested in new restaurant assets which are non-current in nature. As part of our working capital strategy, we negotiate favorable credit terms with vendors and, as a result, our on-hand inventory turns faster than the related short-term liabilities. Accordingly, it is not unusual for current liabilities to exceed current assets. We believe such a deficit has no significant impact on our liquidity or operations. During 2020 net cash provided by operating activities was negatively impacted by lower Operating Profit due in large part to the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic.  In light of the impacts on our business from the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company took the following steps to bolster our cash balance and increase our liquidity position during 2020. 47 • During the first quarter of 2020, we suspended our share repurchase program, pursuant to which the Company's Board of Directors previously authorized repurchases of up to $2 billion of the Company's common stock through June 30, 2021, (the “Share Repurchase Program”).  Commensurate with the performance of the business, health of our balance sheet and liquidity position, including our repayment of remaining borrowings under our Revolving Facility during the quarter ended September 30, 2020, and our confidence that we will grow back into our ~5.0x EBITDA consolidated net leverage target by second-quarter 2021, we resumed share repurchases in the fourth quarter of 2020. • On March 24, 2020, Pizza Hut Holdings, LLC, KFC Holding Co. and Taco Bell of America, LLC (collectively, the “ Borrowers ” ), each a wholly-owned subsidiary of Yum! Brands, Inc., borrowed $525 million under our existing Revolving Facility. This borrowing, together with $425 million borrowed under the Revolving Facility on March 18, 2020, to fund amounts associated with the acquisition of The Habit Restaurants, Inc., resulted in an aggregate of $950 million outstanding under the Revolving Facility as of March 31, 2020. In the second and third quarters of 2020 we made repayments of $375 million and $575 million, respectively, and as of both December 31, 2020 and September 30, 2020, our Revolving Facility was undrawn. The current interest rate for borrowings under the Revolving Facility is LIBOR plus 1.50%. • On April 1, 2020, Yum! Brands, Inc. issued $600 million aggregate principal amount of 7.75% YUM Senior Unsecured Notes due April 1, 2025. See Note 11 for more detail. • On September 25, 2020, Yum! Brands, Inc. issued $1,050 million aggregate principal amount of 3.625% YUM Senior Unsecured Notes due March 15, 2031.  The net proceeds from the issuance, together with cash on hand, were used to repay $1,050 million aggregate principal amount of Subsidiary Senior Unsecured Notes due in 2024.  See Note 11 for more detail. Debt Instruments As of December 31, 2020, approximately 93%, including the impact of interest rate swaps, of our $10.7 billion of total debt outstanding, excluding finance leases and debt issuance costs and discounts, is fixed with an effective overall interest rate of approximately 4.7%. We are currently managing towards a capital structure which reflects consolidated leverage, net of available cash, in-line with our target of ~5.0x EBITDA and which we believe provides an attractive balance between optimized interest rates, duration and flexibility with diversified sources of liquidity and maturities spread over multiple years. We have credit ratings of BB (Standard & Poor's)/Ba2 (Moody's) with a balance sheet consistent with highly-levered peer restaurant franchise companies. The following table summarizes the future maturities of our outstanding long-term debt, excluding finance leases and debt issuance costs and discounts, as of December 31, 2020. Securitization Notes include four senior secured notes issued by Taco Bell Funding, LLC (the “Issuer”) totaling $2.9 billion with fixed interest rates ranging from 4.318% to 4.970%.  The Securitization Notes are secured by substantially all of the assets of the Issuer and the Issuer’s special purpose, wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively with the Issuer, the "Securitization Entities"), and include a lien on all existing and future U.S. Taco Bell franchise and license agreements and the royalties payable thereunder, existing and future U.S. Taco Bell intellectual property, certain transaction accounts and a pledge of the equity interests in asset-owning Securitization Entities.  The Securitization Notes contain cross-default provisions whereby the failure to pay principal on any outstanding Securitization Notes will constitute an event of default under any other Securitization Notes. Credit Agreement includes senior secured credit facilities consisting of a $431 million Term Loan A facility (the “Term Loan A Facility"), a $1.9 billion Term Loan B facility (the “Term Loan B Facility”) and a $1.0 billion revolving facility (the “Revolving Facility”) issued by the Borrowers.  Our Revolving Facility was undrawn as of December 31, 2020.  The interest rates applicable to the Term Loan A Facility and Revolving Facility range from 1.25% to 1.75% plus LIBOR or from 0.25% to 48 0.75% plus the Base Rate, at the Borrowers’ election, based upon the total net leverage ratio of the Borrowers and the Specified Guarantors (as defined in the Credit Agreement).  The interest rates applicable to the Term Loan B Facility are 1.75% plus LIBOR or 0.75% plus the Base Rate, at the Borrowers' election.  Our Term Loan A Facility and Term Loan B Facility contain cross-default provisions whereby the failure to pay principal of or otherwise perform any agreement or condition under indebtedness of certain subsidiaries with a principal amount in excess of $100 million will constitute an event of default under the Credit Agreement. Subsidiary Senior Unsecured Notes include $1,050 million aggregate principal amount of 5.25% Subsidiary Senior Unsecured Notes due 2026 and $750 million aggregate principal amount of 4.75% Subsidiary Senior Unsecured Notes due 2027. Our Subsidiary Senior Unsecured Notes contain cross-default provisions whereby the acceleration of the maturity of the indebtedness of certain subsidiaries with a principal amount in excess of $100 million or the failure to pay principal of such indebtedness will constitute an event of default under the Subsidiary Senior Unsecured Notes. YUM Senior Unsecured Notes include seven series of senior unsecured notes issued by Yum! Brands, Inc. totaling $3.7 billion with fixed interest rates ranging from 3.625% to 7.75%.  Our YUM Senior Unsecured Notes contain cross-default provisions whereby the acceleration of the maturity of any of our indebtedness or the failure to pay principal of such indebtedness above certain thresholds will constitute an event of default under the YUM Senior Unsecured Notes unless such indebtedness  is discharged, or the acceleration of the maturity of that indebtedness is annulled, within 30 days after notice. See Note 11 for details on the Securitization Notes, the Credit Agreement, Subsidiary Senior Unsecured Notes and YUM Senior Unsecured Notes . Contractual Obligations Our significant contractual obligations and payments as of December 31, 2020, included: (a) Amounts include maturities of debt outstanding as of December 31, 2020, and expected interest payments on those outstanding amounts on a nominal basis.  The estimated interest payments related to the variable rate portion of our debt are based on current LIBOR interest rates.  See Note 11. (b) These obligations, which are shown on a nominal basis and represent the non-cancellable term of the lease, relate primarily to approximately 800 Company-owned restaurants and 350 units that we sublease land, building or both to our franchisees.  See Note 12. (c) Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on us and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction.  We have excluded agreements that are cancellable without penalty.  Purchase obligations relate primarily to marketing, information technology and supply agreements. (d) Includes actuarially-determined timing of payments from our most significant unfunded pension plan as well as scheduled payments from our deferred compensation plan and other unfunded benefit plans where payment dates are determinable.  This table excludes $37 million of future benefit payments for deferred compensation and other unfunded benefit plans to be paid upon separation of employee's service or retirement from the company, as we cannot reasonably estimate the dates of these future cash payments. We sponsor noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering certain salaried and hourly employees, the most significant of which are in the U.S. and UK.  The most significant of the U.S. plans, the YUM Retirement Plan (the “Plan”), is funded while benefits from our other significant U.S. plan are paid by the Company as incurred (see footnote (d) above).  Our funding 49 policy for the Plan is to contribute annually amounts that will at least equal the minimum amounts required to comply with the Pension Protection Act of 2006.  However, additional voluntary contributions are made from time-to-time to improve the Plan’s funded status.  At December 31, 2020, the Plan was in a net underfunded position of $20 million.  The UK pension plans were in a net overfunded position of $78 million at our 2020 measurement date. We do not anticipate making any significant contributions to the Plan in 2021.  Investment performance and corporate bond rates have a significant effect on our net funding position as they drive our asset balances and discount rate assumptions.  Future changes in investment performance and corporate bond rates could impact our funded status and the timing and amounts of required contributions in 2021 and beyond. Our post-retirement health care plan in the U.S. is not required to be funded in advance, but is pay as you go.  We made post-retirement benefit payments of $3 million in 2020 and no future funding amounts are included in the contractual obligations table.  See Note 15. We have excluded from the contractual obligations table payments we may make for exposures for which we are self-insured, including workers’ compensation, employment practices liability, general liability, automobile liability, product liability and property losses (collectively “property and casualty losses”) and employee healthcare and long-term disability claims.  The majority of our recorded liability for self-insured property and casualty losses and employee healthcare and long-term disability claims represents estimated reserves for incurred claims that have yet to be filed or settled.  See Note 20. We have not included in the contractual obligations table $64 million of liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits relating to various tax positions we have taken.  These liabilities may increase or decrease over time as a result of tax examinations, and given the status of the examinations, we cannot reliably estimate the period of any cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. As discussed further in Note 20, on January 29, 2020, we received an order from the Special Director of the Directorate of Enforcement in India imposing a penalty on Yum! Restaurants India Private Limited of approximately Indian Rupee 11 billion, or approximately $150 million, primarily relating to alleged violations of operating conditions imposed in 1993 and 1994. We have been advised by external counsel that the order is flawed and have filed a writ petition with the Delhi High Court, which granted an interim stay of the penalty order on March 5, 2020. The stay order remains in effect, and the next hearing is scheduled for March 24, 2021. We deny liability and intend to continue vigorously defending this matter. We do not consider the risk of any significant loss arising from this order to be probable. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements See the Lease Guarantees section of Note 20 for discussion of our off-balance sheet arrangements. New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In March 2020, the FASB issued guidance related to reference rate reform.  The pronouncement provides temporary optional expedients and exceptions to the current guidance on contract modifications and hedge accounting to ease the financial reporting burdens related to the expected market transition from LIBOR and other interbank offered rates to alternative reference rates.  The guidance was effective upon issuance and generally can be applied to applicable contract modifications through December 31, 2022.  We are currently evaluating the impact of the transition from LIBOR to alternative reference rates, including the impact on our interest rate swaps. As of December 30, 2020, our interest rate swaps expiring in July 2021 had notional amounts of $1.55 billion and our interest rate swaps expiring in March 2025 had notional amounts of $1.5 billion. These interest rate swaps are designated cash flow hedges. We do not anticipate the impact of adopting this standard will be material to our Financial Statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our reported results are impacted by the application of certain accounting policies that require us to make subjective or complex judgments.  These judgments involve estimations of the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may significantly impact our quarterly or annual results of operations or financial condition.  Changes in the estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations and financial condition and cash flows in future years.  A description of what we consider to be our most significant critical accounting policies follows. 50 Business Combinations The acquisition of The Habit Restaurants, Inc. was accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting, or acquisition accounting, in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 805, Business Combinations. The acquisition method of accounting involves the allocation of the purchase price to the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. This allocation process involves the use of estimates and assumptions to derive fair values and to complete the allocation. Acquisition accounting allows for up to one year to obtain the information necessary to finalize the fair value of all assets acquired and liabilities assumed at March 18, 2020. We will continue to obtain information to assist in determining the fair value of net assets acquired during the remaining measurement period. As discussed below, during the year ended December 31, 2020, we recorded an impairment charge related to Habit Burger Grill reporting unit goodwill resulting from the impacts of COVID-19 on substantially all Habit Burger grill restaurants. In the event that actual results further vary from any of the estimates or assumptions used in applying the acquisition method of accounting, we may be required to record an additional impairment charge or an increase in depreciation or amortization in future periods, or both. See Note 3 for additional information about accounting for the acquisition of The Habit Restaurants, Inc. Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets We review long-lived assets of restaurants we intend to continue operating as Company restaurants (primarily PP&E, right-of-use operating lease assets and allocated intangible assets subject to amortization) annually for impairment, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a restaurant may not be recoverable.  We evaluate recoverability based on the restaurant’s forecasted undiscounted cash flows, which incorporate our best estimate of sales growth and margin improvement based upon our plans for the unit and actual results at comparable restaurants.  For restaurant assets that are deemed to not be recoverable, we write-down the impaired restaurant to its estimated fair value.  Key assumptions in the determination of fair value are the future after-tax cash flows of the restaurant, which are reduced by future royalties a franchisee would pay, and a discount rate.  The after-tax cash flows incorporate reasonable sales growth and margin improvement assumptions that would be used by a franchisee in the determination of a purchase price for the restaurant.  Estimates of future cash flows are highly subjective judgments and can be significantly impacted by changes in the business or economic conditions. In each of the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 our primary indicator of potential impairment for our restaurant assets was two consecutive years of operating losses. For the year ended December 31, 2020, as a result of the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic this indicator was expanded to include restaurants that were open less than two years with operating losses as of our annual impairment test. This expanded impairment indicator resulted in an increase in the number of store assets reviewed for potential impairment. As a result of our annual impairment review, we recognized store impairment charges of $12 million, which is presented within Other (income) expense in our Consolidated Statement of Income. The magnitude of the charges recorded during the year ended December 31, 2020, was not particularly sensitive to variations in fair value input as, in most situations, the fair value of the store assets, except the value of any right-of-use lease asset, if applicable, was fully impaired. Fair value estimates of right-of-use lease assets in such instances included an estimate of sublease income from a non-franchisee that could be reasonably obtained, which typically resulted in a partial impairment of the right-of-use lease assets. We perform an impairment evaluation at a restaurant group level when it is more likely than not that we will refranchise restaurants as a group.  Expected net sales proceeds are generally based on actual bids from the buyer, if available, or anticipated bids given the discounted projected after-tax cash flows for the group of restaurants.  Historically, these anticipated bids have been reasonably accurate estimations of the proceeds ultimately received.  The after-tax cash flows used in determining the anticipated bids incorporate reasonable assumptions we believe a franchisee would make such as sales growth and margin improvement as well as expectations as to the useful lives of the restaurant assets.  These after-tax cash flows also include a deduction for the anticipated, future royalties we would receive under a franchise agreement with terms substantially at market entered into simultaneously with the refranchising transaction. The discount rate used in the fair value calculations is our estimate of the required rate of return that a franchisee would expect to receive when purchasing a similar restaurant or groups of restaurants and the related long-lived assets.  The discount rate incorporates rates of returns for historical refranchising market transactions and is commensurate with the risks and uncertainty inherent in the forecasted cash flows. We evaluate indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis as of the beginning of our fourth quarter or more often if an event occurs or circumstances change that indicates impairment might exist. Fair value is an estimate of the 51 price a willing buyer would pay for the intangible asset and is generally estimated by discounting the expected future after-tax cash flows associated with the intangible asset. Our most significant indefinite-lived intangible asset is our Habit Burger Grill brand asset with a book value of $96 million at December 31, 2020. As of our fourth quarter 2020 annual impairment testing date, the Habit Burger Grill's forecasted results have improved from those used in determining the brand asset value as part of the initial valuation at the date of the acquisition and we determined that it was not more likely than not that the Habit Burger Grill brand asset was impaired. Impairment of Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment on an annual basis as of the beginning of our fourth quarter or more often if an event occurs or circumstances change that indicates impairment might exist.  Goodwill is evaluated for impairment by determining whether the fair value of our reporting units exceed their carrying values.  Our reporting units are our business units (which are aligned based on geography) in our KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and Habit Burger Grill Divisions. Fair value is the price a willing buyer would pay for the reporting unit, and is generally estimated using discounted expected future after-tax cash flows from franchise royalties and Company-owned restaurant operations, if any.  Future cash flow estimates and the discount rate are the key assumptions when estimating the fair value of a reporting unit. Future cash flows are based on growth expectations relative to recent historical performance and incorporate sales growth (from net new units or same-store sales growth) and margin improvement (for those reporting units which include Company-owned restaurant operations) assumptions that we believe a third-party buyer would assume when determining a purchase price for the reporting unit.  Any margin improvement assumptions that factor into the discounted cash flows are highly correlated with sales growth as cash flow growth can be achieved through various interrelated strategies such as product pricing and restaurant productivity initiatives. The discount rate is our estimate of the required rate of return that a third-party buyer would expect to receive when purchasing a business from us that constitutes a reporting unit. We believe the discount rate is commensurate with the risks and uncertainty inherent in the forecasted cash flows. Other than the Habit Burger Grill reporting unit, the fair values of all our reporting units with goodwill balances were substantially in excess of their respective carrying values as of the 2020 goodwill testing date.  During the first quarter of 2020, the operations of substantially all Habit Burger Grill restaurants were impacted by COVID-19. As a result, we performed an interim impairment test of the Habit Burger Grill reporting unit goodwill as of March 31, 2020. This test of impairment included comparing the estimated fair value of the Habit Burger Grill reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill, as originally determined through our preliminary purchase price allocation performed through application of the acquisition method of accounting. The fair value estimate of the Habit Burger Grill reporting unit was based on the estimated price a willing buyer would pay for the reporting unit and was determined using an income approach through a discounted cash flow analysis using unobservable inputs (Level 3). The most impactful of these inputs included future average unit volumes of Habit Burger Grill restaurants as well as restaurant unit counts. The fair value was determined based upon a probability-weighted average of three scenarios, which included assumed recovery of Habit Burger Grill average unit volumes to a pre—COVID-19 level over periods ranging from the beginning of 2021 to the end of 2022. Factors impacting restaurant unit counts were near-term unit closures as the result of COVID-19 as well as the pace of expected new unit development. Unit counts assumed were correlated with the expected recoveries in average unit volumes. Based upon this fair value estimate, we determined that the carrying value of our Habit Burger Grill reporting unit exceeded its fair value. As a result, during the first quarter of 2020 we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $139 million to Other (income) expense and a corresponding income tax benefit of $32 million. As we continued to refine our preliminary purchase price allocation in the quarter ended September 30, 2020, the impairment charge was adjusted upward by $5 million, which resulted in a corresponding income tax benefit of $1 million. The amount of the goodwill impairment charge and related tax benefit could change again as we finalize the purchase price allocation associated with the acquisition. As of the beginning of our fourth quarter, the date of our annual goodwill impairment assessment, Habit’s forecasted results have improved from those relied upon in our March 31, 2020, interim impairment test and we determined that it was not more likely than not that the fair value of the Habit Burger Grill reporting unit was less than its carrying value. When we refranchise restaurants, we include goodwill in the carrying amount of the restaurants disposed of based on the relative fair values of the portion of the reporting unit disposed of in the refranchising versus the portion of the reporting unit that will be retained.  The fair value of the portion of the reporting unit disposed of in a refranchising is determined by reference to the discounted value of the future cash flows expected to be generated by the restaurant and retained by the franchisee, which include a deduction for the anticipated, future royalties the franchisee will pay us associated with the franchise agreement entered into simultaneously with the refranchising transaction.  Appropriate adjustments are made to the fair value determinations if such franchise agreement is determined to not be at prevailing market rates.  When determining whether such franchise agreement is at prevailing market rates our primary consideration is consistency with the terms of our current franchise agreements both within the country that the restaurants are being refranchised in and around the world.  The Company 52 believes consistency in royalty rates as a percentage of sales is appropriate as the Company and franchisee share in the impact of near-term fluctuations in sales results with the acknowledgment that over the long-term the royalty rate represents an appropriate rate for both parties. The discounted value of the future cash flows expected to be generated by the restaurant and retained by the franchisee is reduced by future royalties the franchisee will pay the Company.  The Company thus considers the fair value of future royalties to be received under the franchise agreement as fair value retained in its determination of the goodwill to be written off when refranchising.  Others may consider the fair value of these future royalties as fair value disposed of and thus would conclude that a larger percentage of a reporting unit’s fair value is disposed of in a refranchising transaction. During 2020, refranchising activity completed by the Company was limited and the write-off of goodwill associated with these transactions was less than $1 million. See Note 2 for a further discussion of our policies regarding goodwill. Pension Plans Certain of our employees are covered under defined benefit pension plans.  Our two most significant plans are in the U.S. and combined had a projected benefit obligation (“PBO”) of $1,133 million and a fair value of plan assets of $1,014 million at December 31, 2020. The PBO reflects the actuarial present value of all benefits earned to date by employees and incorporates assumptions as to future compensation levels.  Due to the relatively long time frame over which benefits earned to date are expected to be paid, our PBOs are highly sensitive to changes in discount rates.  For our U.S. plans, we measured our PBOs using a discount rate of 2.80% at December 31, 2020.  The primary basis for this discount rate determination is a model that consists of a hypothetical portfolio of ten or more corporate debt instruments rated Aa or higher by Moody’s or Standard & Poor's ("S&P") with cash flows that mirror our expected benefit payment cash flows under the plans.  We exclude from the model those corporate debt instruments flagged by Moody’s or S&P for a potential downgrade (if the potential downgrade would result in a rating below Aa by both Moody's and S&P) and bonds with yields that were two standard deviations or more above the mean.  In considering possible bond portfolios, the model allows the bond cash flows for a particular year to exceed the expected benefit payment cash flows for that year.  Such excesses are assumed to be reinvested at appropriate one-year forward rates and used to meet the benefit payment cash flows in a future year.  The weighted-average yield of this hypothetical portfolio was used to arrive at an appropriate discount rate.  We also ensure that changes in the discount rate as compared to the prior year are consistent with the overall change in prevailing market rates and make adjustments as necessary. A 50 basis-point increase in this discount rate would have decreased these U.S. plans’ PBOs by approximately $71 million at our measurement date.  Conversely, a 50 basis-point decrease in this discount rate would have increased our U.S. plans’ PBOs by approximately $79 million at our measurement date. The net periodic benefit cost we will record in 2021 is also impacted by the discount rate, as well as the long-term rates of return on plan assets and mortality assumptions we selected at our measurement date.  We expect net periodic benefit cost plus expected pension settlement charges for our U.S. plans to increase approximately $4 million in 2021.  A 50 basis-point change in our discount rate assumption at our 2020 measurement date would impact our 2021 U.S. net periodic benefit cost by approximately $8 million.  The impacts of changes in net periodic benefit costs are reflected primarily in Other pension (income) expense. Our estimated long-term rate of return on U.S. plan assets is based upon the weighted-average of historical and expected future returns for each asset category.  Our expected long-term rate of return on U.S. plan assets, for purposes of determining 2021 pension expense, at December 31, 2020, was 5.25%, net of administrative and investment fees paid from plan assets.  We believe this rate is appropriate given the composition of our plan assets and historical market returns thereon.  A 100 basis point change in our expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption would impact our 2021 U.S. net periodic benefit cost by approximately $8 million.  Additionally, every 100 basis point variation in actual return on plan assets versus our expected return of 5.25% will impact our unrecognized pre-tax actuarial net loss by approximately $8 million. A decrease in discount rates over time has largely contributed to an unrecognized pre-tax actuarial net loss of $96 million included in AOCI for these U.S. plans at December 31, 2020.  We will recognize approximately $22 million of such loss in net periodic benefit cost in 2021 versus $14 million recognized in 2020.  See Note 15. 53 Income Taxes At December 31, 2020, we had valuation allowances of approximately $789 million to reduce our $1,636 million of deferred tax assets to amounts that are more likely than not to be realized. The net deferred tax assets primarily relate to temporary differences in profitable U.S. federal, state and foreign jurisdictions and net operating losses in certain foreign jurisdictions, the majority of which do not expire.  In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets, we consider future taxable income in the various jurisdictions as well as carryforward periods and restrictions on usage. The estimation of future taxable income in these jurisdictions and our resulting ability to utilize deferred tax assets can significantly change based on future events, including our determinations as to feasibility of certain tax planning strategies and refranchising plans. Thus, recorded valuation allowances may be subject to material future changes. As a matter of course, we are regularly audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. We recognize the benefit of positions taken or expected to be taken in our tax returns in our Income tax provision when it is more likely than not that the position would be sustained upon examination by these tax authorities. A recognized tax position is then measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely of being realized upon settlement. At December 31, 2020, we had $175 million of unrecognized tax benefits, $132 million of which would impact the effective tax rate if recognized. We evaluate unrecognized tax benefits, including interest thereon, on a quarterly basis to ensure that they have been appropriately adjusted for events, including audit settlements, which may impact our ultimate payment for such exposures. The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act included a mandatory deemed repatriation tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, and as a result, previously unremitted earnings for which no U.S. deferred tax liability had been provided have now been subject to U.S. tax. Repatriation of earnings generated after December 31, 2017, will generally be eligible for the 100% dividends received deduction or considered a distribution of previously taxed income and, therefore, exempt from U.S. federal tax. Undistributed foreign earnings may still be subject to certain state and foreign income and withholding taxes upon repatriation. Our cash currently held overseas is primarily limited to that necessary to fund working capital requirements. Thus, we have not provided taxes on our foreign unremitted earnings, including U.S. state income and foreign withholding taxes, as we believe they are indefinitely reinvested.  See Note 18 for a further discussion of our Income taxes.