********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should carefully review the risks described below as they identify important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements, expectations and historical trends. Any of the following risk factors, either by itself or together with other risk factors, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. Risks Related to COVID-19, Food Safety and Catastrophic Events The novel coronavirus (COVID-19) global pandemic has had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Developments related to COVID-19, which was declared a global pandemic by the World Health Organization in March 2020, have adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact our business and results of operations. The impacts of COVID-19 have included the loss of revenues due to store closures, reduced store-level operations, full or partial dining room closures and other restrictions on our business and operations. During 2021, the overall adverse impact of COVID-19 on our operations was less significant than in 2020, but we continued to see negative impacts as of the end of 2021 due to COVID-19 outbreaks and resulting government restrictions limiting mobility in certain parts of the world, primarily in Asia. Conversely, for our restaurants that prominently feature drive-thru, carryout and delivery options, the pandemic has in many cases contributed to an increase in sales since the onset of the pandemic. If the impact of the pandemic continues to recede and the restaurant industry in general returns to more normal operations, the benefits to sales experienced by certain of our restaurants, including our Pizza Hut delivery restaurants, could wane and our results could be negatively impacted. We and our franchisees have made operational changes intended to safeguard employees and customers in response to COVID-19, which have included increased cleaning and sanitization, installation of counter screens and the purchase of personal protective equipment. These operational changes have increased and may continue to increase restaurant operating costs and impact restaurant-level margins and return on invested capital. Our and our franchisees’ restaurants have also experienced, and may continue to experience, interruptions of food and other supplies as well as labor shortages. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic has required and may continue to require us to implement certain precautionary measures, such as in relation to vaccinations, testing and face coverings, which could adversely impact our operations, employee retention and satisfaction, and the willingness of customers to visit our restaurants. Our success is heavily reliant on our Concepts’ franchisees, and the COVID-19 pandemic has caused and may continue to cause financial distress for certain franchisees, particularly those located in areas most significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result of this distress, certain of our franchisees have been unable to, or in the future may be unable to, meet their financial obligations to us as they come due, including the payment of royalties, rent, or other amounts due to the Company. Additionally, certain of our franchisees have been unable to, or in the future may be unable to make payments to landlords, distributors and key suppliers, as well as payments to service any debt they may have outstanding. Franchisee financial distress has also led to, and may continue to lead to, permanent store closures and delayed or reduced new franchisee development, which may further harm our results and liquidity. We are unable to fully predict the impact that COVID-19 will have on our and our franchisees’ operations going forward due to various uncertainties, including the severity and duration of the pandemic, the timing, availability acceptance and effectiveness 9 of medical treatments and vaccines, the spread of potentially more contagious and/or virulent forms of COVID-19, including variants that may be more resistant to currently available vaccines and treatments, the extent to which COVID-19 may cause customers to continue to be reluctant to return to in-restaurant dining or otherwise change their consumption patterns (including after the COVID-19 pandemic has ended), actions that may be taken by governmental authorities, and the extent to which ongoing governmental restrictions in certain regions will be lifted, and the ongoing impact of the pandemic on economic conditions in the U.S. and globally. Moreover, if conditions related to the COVID-19 pandemic result in significant disruptions to capital and financial markets, or negatively impact our credit ratings, our cost of borrowing, our ability to access capital on favorable terms and our overall liquidity and capital structure could be adversely impacted. Food safety and food- or beverage-borne illness concerns may have an adverse effect on our business. Food-borne illnesses, such as E. coli, Listeria, Salmonella, Cyclospora and Trichinosis, and food safety issues, such as food tampering, contamination (including with respect to allergens) and adulteration or food- or beverage-borne illness, occur or may occur within our system from time to time. Furthermore, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, there are now stricter health regulations and guidelines and increased public concern over food safety standards and controls. Any report or publicity linking us or one of our Concepts’ restaurants, or linking our competitors or the retail food industry generally, to instances of food- or beverage-borne illness or food safety issues, could adversely affect us and possibly lead to product liability claims, litigation, governmental investigations or actions, and damages. Moreover, the reliance of our Concepts’ restaurants on third-party food suppliers and distributors and increasing reliance on food delivery aggregators increases the risk that food- or beverage-borne illness incidents and food safety issues could be caused by factors outside of our direct control. If a customer of one of our Concepts’ restaurants becomes ill from food or beverage-borne illnesses or as a result of food safety issues, restaurants in our system may be temporarily closed, which could disrupt our operations and materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, instances or allegations of food or beverage-borne illness or food safety issues, real or perceived, involving our restaurants, restaurants of competitors, or our suppliers or distributors (regardless of whether we use or have used those suppliers or distributors), or otherwise involving the types of food served at our restaurants, could result in negative publicity that could adversely affect either our or our Concepts’ franchisees’ revenues and profits. The occurrence of food or beverage-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, which could result in disruptions in our supply chain and/or lower margins for us and our Concepts’ franchisees. Our business may be adversely affected by catastrophic or unforeseen events, such as future health epidemics or pandemics, natural disasters, and events that lead to avoidance of public places or restrictions on public gatherings. Our business could be materially and adversely impacted by various future occurrences (which may be beyond our control), including future health epidemics or pandemics, natural disasters, geopolitical events, terrorism, political, financial or social instability, boycotts, social or civil unrest, workplace violence, or other events that lead to avoidance of public places or restrictions on public gatherings such as in our and our Concepts' restaurants. For example, the outbreak of a widespread future health epidemic or pandemic, including an outbreak arising from various strains of avian flu or swine flu, such as H1N1, particularly if located in regions from which we derive a significant amount of revenue or profit could materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, our operations could be disrupted if any of our employees or employees of our business partners were suspected of having the avian flu or swine flu, or other illnesses such as hepatitis A or norovirus, since this could require us or our business partners to quarantine some or all of such employees or disinfect our restaurant facilities. Prior outbreaks of avian flu have resulted in confirmed human cases and it is possible that outbreaks could reach pandemic levels. Public concern over avian flu generally may cause fear about the consumption of chicken, eggs and other products derived from poultry, which could cause customers to consume less poultry and related products, which would adversely affect us as the result of the fact that poultry is a menu offering for our Concepts’ restaurants. Avian flu outbreaks could also adversely affect the price and availability of poultry, which could negatively impact profit margins and revenues for us and our Concepts’ franchisees. Furthermore, other viruses may be transmitted through human contact, and the risk of contracting viruses could cause employees or guests to avoid gathering in public places, which could adversely affect restaurant guest traffic or the ability to adequately staff restaurants. We could also be adversely affected if government authorities impose mandatory closures, seek voluntary closures, impose restrictions on operations of restaurants, or restrict the import or export of products, or if suppliers issue mass recalls of products. Even if such measures are not implemented and a virus or other disease does not spread significantly, the perceived risk of infection or health risk may adversely affect our business and operating results. 10 Risks Related to our Business Strategy and reliance upon Franchisees Our operating results and growth strategies are closely tied to the success of our Concepts’ franchisees. The vast majority (98%) of our restaurants are operated by our Concepts’ franchisees. Our refranchising efforts have increased our dependence on the financial success and cooperation of our Concepts’ franchisees. In addition, our long-term growth depends on maintaining the pace of our net system unit growth rate through our Concepts’ franchisees. We also rely on master franchisees, who have rights to license to sub-franchisees the right to develop and operate restaurants, to achieve our expectations for new unit development. If our Concepts’ franchisees and master franchisees do not meet our expectations for new unit development, we may not achieve our desired growth. We have limited control over how our Concepts’ franchisees’ businesses are run, and their inability to operate successfully could adversely affect our operating results through decreased fees paid to us for royalties, advertising funds contributions, and other discrete services we may provide to our Concept’s franchisees ( e.g. management of e-commerce platforms). Our control is further limited in markets where we utilize master franchise arrangements, which require us to rely on our master franchisees to monitor and enforce sub-franchisee compliance with our operating standards. If our Concepts’ franchisees fail to adequately capitalize their businesses or incur too much debt, if their operating expenses or commodity prices increase or if economic or sales trends deteriorate such that they are unable to operate profitably or repay existing debt, it could result in their financial distress, including insolvency or bankruptcy, or the inability to meet development targets or obligations. If a significant franchisee of one of our Concepts becomes, or a significant number of our Concepts’ franchisees in the aggregate become, financially distressed (which has occurred with certain of our franchisees as the result of the COVID-19 pandemic), our operating results could be impacted through reduced or delayed fee payments that cause us to record bad debt expense, reduced advertising fund contributions, and reduced new unit development. In addition, we are secondarily liable on certain of our Concepts’ franchisees’ restaurant lease agreements, including lease agreements that we have guaranteed or assigned to franchisees in connection with the refranchising of certain Company-owned restaurants. Our operating results could be impacted by any increased rent obligations for such leased properties to the extent our Concepts’ franchisees default on such lease agreements. In addition, the failure of our Concepts’ franchisees to attract and retain quality personnel or adequately engage in succession planning may adversely affect their restaurant operations and the development of new restaurants, which in turn could hurt our business. Our success also depends on the willingness and ability of our Concepts’ franchisees to implement marketing programs and major initiatives such as restaurant remodels or equipment or technology upgrades, which may require financial investment by such franchisees. Our Concepts may be unable to successfully implement strategies that we believe are necessary for further growth if their franchisees do not participate, which in turn may harm the growth prospects and financial condition of the Company. Additionally, the failure of our Concepts’ franchisees to focus on key elements of restaurant operations, such as compliance with our operating standards addressing quality, service and cleanliness (even if such failures do not rise to the level of breaching the related franchise documents), may be attributed by guests to our Concepts’ entire brand and could have a negative impact on our business. Moreover, franchisee noncompliance with the terms and conditions of our franchise agreements may reduce the overall goodwill of our Concepts’ brands, whether through the failure to meet health and safety standards (including with respect to additional sanitation protocols and guidelines in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic), engage in quality control or maintain product consistency, or through the participation in improper or objectionable business practices. We have franchise relationships that are particularly important to our business, such as our relationship with Yum China. In connection with the spin-off of our China business in 2016 into an independent publicly-traded company (the “Separation” or “Yum China spin-off”), we entered into a Master License Agreement pursuant to which Yum China is the exclusive licensee of the KFC, Taco Bell and Pizza Hut Concepts and their related marks and other intellectual property rights for restaurant services in mainland China. Following the Separation, Yum China became, and continues to be, our largest franchisee. Our financial results are significantly affected by Yum China’s results as we are entitled to receive a 3% sales-based royalty on all Yum China system sales related to these Concepts. In addition to Yum China, we have other significant franchise relationships on which our success is dependent, including our strategic alliance with Food Delivery Brands Group, S.A. (previously named Telepizza Group S.A. (“Telepizza”)), which is the master franchisee of Pizza Hut in Latin America (excluding Brazil) and portions of Europe, and our relationship with certain other large franchisees. Any failure to realize the expected benefits of such franchise relationships may adversely impact our business and operating results. 11 We may not achieve our target development goals, including as the result of the COVID-19 pandemic, and new restaurants may not be profitable. Our growth strategy depends on our and our Concepts’ franchisees’ ability to increase the number of restaurants around the world. The successful development of new units depends in large part on the ability of our Concepts’ franchisees to open new restaurants and to operate these restaurants profitably. Effectively managing growth can be challenging, particularly as we expand into new markets internationally, and we cannot guarantee that we, or our Concepts’ franchisees, including Yum China, will be able to achieve our expansion goals or that new restaurants will be operated profitably, consistent with results of existing restaurants or consistent with our or our franchisees’ expectations. Other risks that could impact our ability to increase the number of our restaurants include prevailing economic conditions and trade or economic policies or sanctions, our ability to attract new franchisees, construction and development costs of new restaurants, and our, or our Concepts’ franchisees’, ability to obtain suitable restaurant locations, negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms for the locations, access capital on favorable terms, obtain required permits and approvals in a timely manner, hire and train qualified management teams and restaurant crews, and meet construction schedules. Expansion into markets could also be affected by our Concepts’ franchisees’ willingness to invest capital or ability to obtain financing to construct and open new restaurants. If it becomes more difficult or more expensive for our Concepts’ franchisees to obtain financing to develop new restaurants, or if the perceived return on invested capital is not sufficiently attractive, the expected growth of our system could slow and our future revenues and operating cash flows could be adversely impacted. In addition, the development of new restaurants could impact the sales of our Concepts’ existing restaurants nearby. There can be no assurance that sales cannibalization will not occur or become more significant in the future as we increase our presence in existing markets. We may not realize the anticipated benefits from past or potential future acquisitions, investments or other strategic transactions. From time to time we evaluate and may complete mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, strategic partnerships, minority investments (which may include minority investments in third parties, such as franchisees or master franchisees) and other strategic transactions, including our acquisition of Dragontail Systems Limited completed in September 2021, and our acquisition of The Habit Restaurants, Inc. completed in March 2020. Past and potential future strategic transactions may involve various inherent risks, including, without limitation: • expenses, delays or difficulties in integrating acquired companies, joint venture operations, strategic partnerships or investments into our organization, including the failure to realize expected synergies and/or the inability to retain key personnel; • diversion of management’s attention from other initiatives and/or day-to-day operations to effectively execute our growth strategy; • inability to generate sufficient revenue, profit, and cash flow from acquired companies, joint ventures, strategic partnerships or investments; • the possibility that we have acquired substantial contingent or unanticipated liabilities in connection with acquisitions or other strategic transactions; and • the possibility that investments we have made may decline significantly in value, which could lead to the potential impairment of the carrying value of goodwill associated with acquired businesses. Past and potential future strategic transactions may not ultimately create value for us and may harm our reputation and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we account for certain investments, including our investment in Devyani International Limited (“Devyani”), on a mark-to-market basis and, as a result, changes in the fair value of these investments impact our reported results. Changes in market prices for equity securities are unpredictable, and our investment in Devyani has caused, and could continue to cause, fluctuations in our results of operations. 12 Risks Related to Operating a Global Business We have significant exposure to the Chinese market through our largest franchisee, Yum China, which subjects us to risks that could negatively affect our business. A significant portion of our total business, particularly with respect to our KFC Concept, is conducted in mainland China through our largest franchisee, Yum China.  Yum China’s business is exposed to risks in mainland China, which include, among others, potential political, financial and social instability, changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation), consumer preferences, the regulatory environment (including uncertainties with respect to the interpretation and enforcement of Chinese laws, rules and regulations), food safety related matters (including compliance with food safety regulations and ability to ensure product quality and safety), and the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic and related restrictions in China. Any significant or prolonged deterioration in U.S.–China relations, including as the result of current U.S.–China tensions, could adversely affect our Concepts in mainland China.  Chinese law regulates Yum China’s business conducted within mainland China. Our royalty income from the Yum China business is therefore subject to numerous uncertainties based on Chinese laws, regulations and policies, as they may change from time to time. If Yum China’s business is harmed or development of our Concepts’ restaurants is slowed in mainland China due to any of these factors, it could negatively impact the royalty paid by Yum China to us, which would negatively impact our financial results or our growth prospects. Our relationship with Yum China is governed primarily by a Master License Agreement, which may be terminated upon the occurrence of certain events, such as the insolvency or bankruptcy of Yum China. In addition, if we are unable to enforce our intellectual property or contract rights in mainland China, if Yum China is unable or unwilling to satisfy its obligations under the Master License Agreement, or if the Master License Agreement is otherwise terminated, it could result in an interruption in the operation of our brands that have been exclusively licensed to Yum China for use in mainland China. Such interruption could cause a delay in, or loss of, royalty income to us, which would negatively impact our financial results. Our international operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business. A significant portion of our Concepts’ restaurants are operated in countries and territories outside of the U.S., including in emerging markets, and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations. As a result, our business and the businesses of our Concepts’ franchisees are increasingly exposed to risks inherent in international operations. These risks, which can vary substantially by country, include political, financial or social instability or conditions, geopolitical events, corruption, anti-American sentiment, social and ethnic unrest, military conflicts and terrorism, as well as changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation), the regulatory environment (including the risks of operating in developing or emerging markets in which there are uncertainties regarding the interpretation and enforceability of legal requirements and the enforceability of contract rights and intellectual property rights), income and non-income based tax rates and laws. Additional risks include the impact of import restrictions or controls, sanctions, foreign exchange control regimes (including restrictions on currency conversion), health guidelines and safety protocols related to the COVID-19 pandemic, labor costs and conditions, compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and other similar applicable laws prohibiting bribery of government officials and other corrupt practices, consumer preferences and the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in countries where our Concepts’ restaurants are operated. For example, we have been subject to a regulatory enforcement action in India alleging violation of foreign exchange laws for failure to satisfy conditions of certain operating approvals, such as minimum investment and store build requirements as well as limitations on the remittance of fees outside of the country (see Note 20). In addition, escalating tensions between Russia and Ukraine and any potential military incursion of Russia into Ukraine could adversely impact macroeconomic conditions, give rise to regional instability and result in heightened economic sanctions from the U.S. and the international community in a manner that adversely affects us and our Concepts’ restaurants located in Russia and Eastern Europe, including to the extent that any such sanctions restrict our ability in this region to conduct business with certain suppliers or vendors, and/or to utilize the banking system and repatriate cash. We and our franchisees do business in jurisdictions that may be subject to trade or economic sanction regimes and such sanctions could be expanded. Any failure to comply with such sanction regimes or other similar laws or regulations could result in the assessment of damages, the imposition of penalties, suspension of business licenses, or a cessation of operations at our or our franchisees’ businesses, as well as damage to our and our Concepts’ brands’ images and reputations. Foreign currency risks and foreign exchange controls could adversely affect our financial results. Our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings. More specifically, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar, relative to other currencies, such as the Chinese Renminbi (“RMB”), Australian Dollar, the British Pound and the Euro, as well as currencies in certain 13 other markets, such as the Malaysian Ringgit and Russian Ruble, could have an adverse effect on our reported earnings. Any significant fluctuation in the value of currencies of countries in which we or our franchisees operate, and in particular RMB in China, could materially impact the U.S. dollar value of royalty payments made to us, which could result in lower revenues. In addition, fluctuations in the value of currencies in which we or our franchisees operate could lead to increased costs and lower profitability to us or our franchisees and/or cause us or our franchisees to increase prices to customers, which could negatively impact sales in these markets and harm our financial condition and operating results. There can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. In addition, the governments in certain countries where our Concepts operate, including China, restrict the conversion of local currency into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of the country. Restrictions on the conversion of RMB to U.S. dollars or further restrictions on the remittance of currency out of China could result in delays in the remittance of Yum China’s royalty, which could impact our liquidity. Risks Related to Technology, Data Privacy and Intellectual Property Any cybersecurity incident, including the failure to protect the integrity and security of personal information of our customers and employees, or the introduction of malware or ransomware, could materially affect our business and result in substantial costs, litigation, reputational harm and a loss of consumer confidence. We receive and maintain certain personal, financial and other information about our customers, employees, vendors and franchisees. In addition, our vendors and/or franchisees receive and maintain certain personal, financial and other information about our vendors, employees and customers. The use and handling, including security, of this information is regulated by evolving and increasingly demanding laws and regulations in various jurisdictions, as well as by certain third-party contracts and industry standards. We have experienced cyber-attacks and security breaches from time to time. The number and frequency of these cyber-attacks and/or security breaches varies but could be exacerbated by an increase in the use of our digital commerce platforms.  Furthermore, the significant increase in remote working as the result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which may continue following the pandemic, could increase the risks of cyber incidents and the improper dissemination of personal or confidential information. If our security and information systems or those of businesses with which we interact are compromised as a result of data corruption or loss, a cyber-attack or a network security incident, or if our employees, franchisees or vendors fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations or fail to meet industry standards and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could result in liabilities and penalties, damage our brands and reputation, cause interruption of normal business performance, cause us to incur substantial costs, result in a loss of consumer confidence and sales and disrupt our supply chain, business and plans. Additionally, such events could result in the release to the public of confidential information about our operations and could subject us to litigation and government enforcement actions, the losses associated with which may not be covered by insurance. Moreover, any significant cybersecurity events could require us to devote significant management resources to address the problems created by such events, interfere with the pursuit of other important business strategies and initiatives, and cause us to incur additional expenditures, which could be material, including to investigate such events, remedy cybersecurity problems, recover lost data, prevent future compromises and adapt systems and practices in response to such events. There is no assurance that any remedial actions will meaningfully limit the success of future attempts to breach our information technology systems. Further, the standards for systems currently used for transmission and approval of electronic payment transactions, and the technology utilized in electronic payment transactions, all of which can put electronic payment data at risk, are determined and controlled by the payment card industry, not by us. If we or our franchisees fail to adequately control fraudulent credit card and debit card transactions or to comply with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, we or our franchisees may face civil liability, diminished public perception of our security measures, fines and assessments from the card brands, and significantly higher credit card and debit card related costs, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure to maintain satisfactory compliance with data privacy and data protection legal requirements may adversely affect our business and subject us to penalties. Data privacy is subject to frequently changing rules and regulations, which sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries where we, our Concepts and our Concepts’ franchisees do business. For example, we are subject to numerous global laws including the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) applicable to the processing of personal data in the European Union, which was adopted by the European Union effective May 2018 and requires companies to meet new requirements regarding the handling of personal data and is subject to changing requirements, each of which could increase Company and franchisee resources necessary to comply. In addition, the State of California enacted the California Consumer 14 Privacy Act (the “CCPA”), which became effective January 2020, requiring companies that process information on California residents to, among other things, provide new disclosures and options to consumers about data collection, use and sharing practices. Further, the CCPA has been subject to revision and amendments, including significant modifications made by the California Privacy Rights Act (“CPRA”), under which the majority of requirements will take effect January 1, 2023. The updates and modifications to the CCPA, as well as requirements under the GDPR, and other newly enacted and evolving legal requirements, may require us and our franchisees to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses to comply. Moreover, each of the GDPR and the CCPA confer a private right-of-action to certain individuals and associations, and the CPRA will fund the creation of a regulatory body enforcing its provisions. In addition, several other states have introduced data privacy legislation which may impose varying standards and requirements on our data collection, use and processing activities. The Federal Trade Commission and many state attorneys general are also interpreting federal and state consumer protection laws to impose standards for the collection, use, dissemination and security of data. The Federal Trade Commission will also pursue privacy as a dedicated enforcement priority, with specialized attorneys seeking violation of US privacy laws including unfair or deceptive practices relating to privacy policies, consumer data collection and processing consent, and digital advertising practices. Furthermore, various other international jurisdictions, where our Concepts have operations, have significantly strengthened their data privacy laws, rules and regulations. New cross-border data transfer requirements will require us to incur costs and expenses in order to comply and may impact the transfer of personal data throughout our organization and to third parties. The increasingly restrictive and evolving regulatory environment at the international, federal and state level related to data privacy and data protection may require significant effort and cost, require changes to our business practices and impact our ability to obtain and use data used to provide a personalized experience for customers of our Concepts’ restaurants. In addition, failure to comply with applicable requirements may subject us and our franchisees to fines, sanctions, governmental investigation, lawsuits and other potential liability, as well as reputational harm. Unreliable or inefficient restaurant or consumer-facing technology or the failure to successfully implement technology initiatives in the future could adversely impact operating results and the overall consumer experience. We and our Concepts’ franchisees rely heavily on information technology systems in the conduct of our business, some of which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties, including, for example, point-of-sale processing in our restaurants, management of our supply chain, and various other processes and procedures. These systems are subject to damage, interruption or failure due to theft, fire, power outages, telecommunications failure, computer viruses, security breaches, malicious cyber-attacks including the introduction of malware or ransomware or other disruptive behavior by hackers, or other catastrophic events. Certain technology systems may also be unreliable or inefficient, and technology vendors may limit or terminate product support and maintenance, which could impact the reliability of critical systems’ operations. If our or our Concepts’ franchisees’ information technology systems are damaged or fail to function properly, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and may experience loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to manage inventories or process transactions, which could result in lost sales, customer or employee dissatisfaction, or negative publicity that could adversely impact our reputation, results of operations and financial condition. We and our Concepts’ franchisees rely on technology not only to efficiently operate our restaurants but also to drive the customer experience, sales growth and margin improvement. Our continued growth will be dependent on our initiatives to implement proprietary and third-party technology solutions and gather and leverage data to enhance restaurant operations and improve the customer experience. It may be difficult to recruit and retain qualified individuals for these efforts due to intense competition for qualified technology systems’ developers necessary to innovate, develop and implement new technologies for our growth initiatives, including increasing our digital relationship with customers. Our strategic digital and technology initiatives may not be implemented in a timely manner or may not achieve the desired results. Even if we effectively implement and manage our technology initiatives, there is no guarantee that this will result in sales growth or margin improvement. Additionally, developing and implementing the evolving technology demands of the consumer may place a significant financial burden on us and our Concepts’ franchisees, and our Concepts' franchisees may have differing views on investment priorities. Moreover, our failure to adequately invest in new technology or adapt to technological advancements and industry trends, particularly with respect to digital commerce capabilities, could result in a loss of customers and related market share. If our Concepts’ digital commerce platforms do not meet customers’ expectations in terms of security, speed, attractiveness or ease of use, customers may be less inclined to return to such digital commerce platforms, which could negatively impact our business. We cannot predict the impact that alternative methods of delivery, including autonomous vehicle delivery, or changes in consumer behavior facilitated by these alternative methods of delivery will have on our business. Advances in alternative methods of delivery, including advances in digital ordering technology, or certain changes in consumer behavior driven by these or other technologies and methods of delivery could have a negative effect on our business and market position. 15 Moreover, technology and consumer offerings continue to develop, and we expect that new or enhanced technologies and consumer offerings will be available in the future. We may pursue certain of those technologies and consumer offerings if we believe they offer a sustainable customer proposition and can be successfully integrated into our business model. However, we cannot predict consumer acceptance of these delivery channels or their impact on our business. There are risks associated with our increasing dependence on digital commerce platforms to maintain and grow sales. Customers are increasingly using e-commerce websites and apps, both domestically and internationally, such as kfc.com, tacobell.com, pizzahut.com, habitburger.com, KFC, Taco Bell, Pizza Hut and The Habit Burger Grill apps, and apps owned by third-party delivery aggregators and third-party mobile payment processors, to order and pay for our Concepts’ products. Moreover, the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in an increase in the use of store-level or third-party delivery services by our Concepts. Many restaurants in each of our Concepts now offer consumers the ability to have the Concept’s food delivered through third-party delivery services. As a result, our Concepts and our Concepts’ franchisees are increasingly reliant on digital ordering and payment as a sales channel and our business could be negatively impacted if we are unable to successfully implement, execute or maintain our consumer-facing digital initiatives, such as curbside pick-up and mobile carryout. If the third-party aggregators that we utilize for delivery, including marketplace and delivery as a service, cease or curtail their operations, fail to maintain sufficient labor force to satisfy demand, materially change fees, access or visibility to our products or give greater priority or promotions on their platforms to our competitors, our business may be negatively impacted. These digital ordering and payment platforms also could be damaged or interrupted by power loss, technological failures, user errors, cyber-attacks, other forms of sabotage, inclement weather or natural disasters. The digital ordering platforms relied upon by our Concepts have experienced interruptions and could experience further interruptions, which could limit or delay customers’ ability to order through such platforms or make customers less inclined to return to such platforms. The rapid acceleration in growth of digital sales has placed additional stress on those platforms that are more reliant upon legacy technology, such as certain platforms used by Pizza Hut, which may result in more frequent and potentially more severe interruptions. Moreover, our reliance on multiple digital commerce platforms to support our global footprint, multiple Concepts and highly franchised business model could increase our vulnerability to cyber-attacks and/or security breaches and could necessitate additional expenditures as we endeavor to consolidate and standardize such platforms. Yum China, our largest franchisee, utilizes third-party mobile payment apps such as Alipay and WeChat Pay as a means through which to generate sales and process payments. Should customers become unable to access mobile payment apps in China, should the relationship between Yum China and one or more third-party mobile payment processors become interrupted, or should Yum China’s ability to use WeChat Pay, Alipay or other third-party mobile payment apps in its operations be restricted, its business could be materially and adversely affected, which could have a negative impact on the royalty paid to us. Our inability or failure to recognize, respond to and effectively manage the increased impact of social media could adversely impact our business. In recent years, there has been a marked increase in the use of social media platforms, including blogs, chat platforms, social media websites, and other forms of Internet-based communications which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. The rising popularity of social media and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination and given users the ability to more effectively organize collective actions such as boycotts and other brand-damaging behaviors. Many social media platforms immediately publish the content their subscribers and participants post, often without filters or checks on accuracy of the content posted. Information posted on such platforms at any time may be adverse to our interests and/or may be inaccurate. The dissemination of information online could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and results of operations, regardless of the information’s accuracy. The damage may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. In addition, social media is frequently used by our Concepts to communicate with their respective customers and the public in general. Failure by our Concepts to use social media effectively or appropriately, particularly as compared to our Concepts’ respective competitors, could lead to a decline in brand value, customer visits and revenue. Social media is also increasingly used to compel companies to express public positions on issues and topics not directly related to their core business, which could prove controversial or divisive to consumers and result in lost sales or a misallocation of resources. In addition, laws and regulations, including Federal Trade Commission enforcement, are rapidly evolving to govern social media platforms and communications. A failure of us, our employees, our franchisees or third parties acting at our direction to abide by applicable laws and regulations in the use of social media could adversely impact our Concepts’ brands, our reputation and our business, or subject us or our franchisees to fines or other penalties. Other risks associated with the use of social media include improper disclosure of proprietary information, negative comments about our Concepts’ brands, exposure of personally identifiable information, fraud, hoaxes or malicious dissemination of false information. The inappropriate use of social media by our 16 customers or employees could increase our costs, lead to litigation or result in negative publicity that could damage our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to protect our trademarks or other intellectual property could harm our Concepts’ brands and overall business. We regard our registered trademarks (e.g., Yum®, KFC®, Taco Bell®, Pizza Hut® and The Habit®) and unregistered trademarks, and other trademarks related to our restaurant businesses, as having significant value and being important to our marketing efforts. Our trademarks, many of which are registered in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions, create brand awareness and help build goodwill among our customers. We rely on a combination of legal protections provided by trademark registrations, contracts, copyrights, patents and common law rights, such as unfair competition, passing off and trade secret laws to protect our intellectual property from potential infringement.  However, from time to time we become aware of other persons or companies using names and marks that are identical or confusingly similar to our brands’ names and marks. Although our policy is to oppose infringements and other unauthorized uses of marks similar or identical to our brands’ marks, certain or unknown unauthorized uses or other misappropriation of our trademarks could diminish the value of our Concepts’ brands and adversely affect our business and goodwill. In addition, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our Concepts have, or may in the future open or franchise, a restaurant and the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. There can be no assurance that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property or the legal protections that may be available will be adequate or that our franchisees will maintain the quality of the goods and services offered under our brands’ trademarks or always act in accordance with guidelines we set for maintaining our brands' intellectual property rights and defending or enforcing our trademarks and other intellectual property could result in the expenditure of significant resources or result in significant harm to our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. Our brands may also be targets of infringement claims that could interfere with the use of certain names or trademarks and/or the proprietary know-how, recipes, or trade secrets used in our business. Defending against such claims is costly, and as a result of defending such claims, we may be prohibited from using such proprietary information in the future or forced to pay damages, royalties, or other fees for using such proprietary information, any of which could negatively affect our business, reputation, financial condition, and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Supply Chain and Employment Shortages or interruptions in the availability and delivery of food, equipment and other supplies may increase costs or reduce revenues. The products sold or used by our Concepts and their franchisees are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers although certain products and equipment have limited suppliers, which increases our reliance on those suppliers. We, along with our Concepts’ franchisees, are also dependent upon third parties to make frequent deliveries of food products, equipment and supplies that meet our specifications at competitive prices. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of food items, equipment and other supplies to our Concepts’ restaurants have happened from time to time and could reduce sales, harm our Concepts’ reputations and delay the planned openings of new restaurants by us and our Concepts’ franchisees. We are experiencing and have experienced certain supply chain disruptions resulting from, among other things, capacity, transportation, staffing, operational and COVID-19 related challenges, which have and may continue to adversely affect our business and results of operations. Future shortages or disruptions could be caused by the factors noted above as well as factors such as natural disasters, health epidemics and pandemics (including the COVID-19 pandemic), social unrest, the impacts of climate change, inaccurate forecasting of customer demand, problems in production or distribution, restrictions on imports or exports including due to trade disputes or restrictions, the inability of vendors to obtain credit, political instability in the countries in which the suppliers and distributors are located, the financial instability of suppliers and distributors, suppliers’ or distributors’ failure to meet our standards or requirements, transitioning to new suppliers or distributors, product quality issues or recalls, inflation, food safety warnings or advisories, the cancellation of supply or distribution agreements or an inability to renew such arrangements or to find replacements on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, in the U.S., the Company and the Company’s KFC, Taco Bell and Pizza Hut franchisee groups are members of Restaurant Supply Chain Solutions, LLC (“RSCS”), which is a third party responsible for purchasing certain restaurant products and equipment. The Habit Burger Grill entered into a purchasing agreement with RSCS in 2020. McLane Foodservice, Inc. (“McLane”) serves as the largest distributor for the Company’s KFC, Taco Bell and Pizza Hut Concepts in the U.S. Any 17 failure or inability of our significant suppliers or distributors, including RSCS or McLane to meet their respective service requirements, could result in shortages or interruptions in the availability of food and other supplies. The loss of key personnel, labor shortages or difficulty finding qualified employees could slow our growth, harm our business and reduce our profitability. Much of our future success depends on the continued availability and service of senior management personnel. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key senior management personnel could harm our business. In addition, our restaurant operations are highly service-oriented and our success depends in part upon our and our Concepts’ franchisees’ ability to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified employees, including franchisee management, restaurant managers and other crew members. The market for qualified employees in the retail food industry is very competitive. Our and our Concepts’ franchisees are experiencing and may continue to experience a shortage of labor for positions in our restaurants, including due to the current competitive labor market and concerns around COVID-19. Inability to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified individuals may result in reduced operating hours or service levels, delay our planned use, development or deployment of technology or impact the planned openings of new restaurants by us and our Concepts’ franchisees which could have a material adverse impact on the operation of our Concepts’ existing restaurants. In addition, strikes, work slowdown or other labor unrest may become more common. In the event of a strike, work slowdown or other labor unrest, the ability to adequately staff our Concepts’ restaurants could be impaired, which could result in reduced revenue and customer claims, and may distract our management from focusing on our business and strategic priorities. Changes in labor and other operating costs could adversely affect our and our franchisees’ results of operations. An increase in the costs of employee wages, benefits and insurance (including workers’ compensation, general liability, property and health) as well as other operating costs such as rent and energy costs could adversely affect our and our franchisees’ operating results. In particular, labor shortages and the current competitive labor market have increased competition for qualified employees, which has compelled, and may continue to compel, us and our franchisees, to pay higher wages to attract or retain qualified employees (including franchisee management, restaurant managers and other crew members). Such increases in costs may result from general economic or competitive conditions or from government imposition of higher minimum wages at the federal, state or local level, including in connection with the increases in state minimum wages that have recently been enacted by various states and (if ultimately enacted) the potential increase in the federal minimum wage in the U.S. proposed by the current presidential administration. Moreover, there may be a long-term trend toward higher wages in developing markets. Any increase in such operating expenses could adversely affect our and our Concepts’ franchisees’ profit margins. An increase in food prices may have an adverse impact on our and our Concepts’ franchisees’ profit margins. Our and our Concepts’ franchisees’ businesses depend on reliable sources of large quantities of raw materials such as proteins (including poultry, pork, beef and seafood), cheese, oil, flour and vegetables (including potatoes and lettuce). Raw materials purchased for use in our Concepts’ restaurants are subject to price volatility caused by any fluctuation in aggregate supply and demand, or other external conditions, such as weather and climate conditions, energy costs or natural events or disasters that affect expected harvests of such raw materials, taxes and tariffs (including as a result of trade disputes), industry demand, inflationary conditions, labor shortages, transportation issues, fuel costs, food safety concerns, product recalls, governmental regulation and other factors, all of which are beyond our control and in many instances are unpredictable. We have recently experienced and may continue to experience, an increase in the price of various raw materials purchased by us as well as increased volatility in such prices, which have and may continue to adversely affect our results of operations. We cannot assure that we or our Concepts’ franchisees will continue to be able to purchase raw materials at reasonable prices, or that the cost of raw materials will remain stable in the future. In addition, a significant increase in gasoline prices could result in the imposition of fuel surcharges by our distributors. Because we and our Concepts’ franchisees provide competitively priced food, we may not have the ability to pass through to our customers the full amount of any commodity price increases. If we and our Concepts’ franchisees are unable to manage the cost of raw materials or to increase the prices of products proportionately, our and our franchisees’ profit margins and return on invested capital may be adversely impacted, which could impact our ability to meet our new unit development targets. 18 Risks Related to our Concepts’ Brands and Reputation Our success depends substantially on our corporate reputation and on the value and perception of our brands. Our success depends in large part upon our ability and our Concepts’ franchisees’ ability to maintain and enhance our corporate reputation and the value and perception of our brands. Brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities. Those perceptions are affected by a variety of factors, including the nutritional content and preparation of our food, the ingredients we use, food safety, and our business practices, including with respect to the manner in which we source commodities and social and environmental sustainability considerations. Consumer acceptance of our offerings is subject to change for a variety of reasons, and some changes can occur rapidly. For example, nutritional, health and other scientific studies and conclusions, which constantly evolve and may have contradictory implications, drive popular opinion, litigation and regulation (including initiatives intended to drive consumer behavior) in ways that may affect perceptions of our Concepts’ brands generally or relative to available alternatives. In addition, the restaurant industry globally has been subject to scrutiny and claims that the menus and practices of restaurant chains have led to customer health issues, such as weight gain and other adverse effects. Publicity about these matters (particularly directed at the quick service and fast-casual segments of the retail food industry) may harm our Concepts’ reputations and adversely affect our business. Moreover, this scrutiny could lead to an increase in the regulation of the content or marketing of our products, including legislation or regulation seeking to tax and/or regulate high-fat foods, foods with high sugar and salt content, or foods otherwise deemed to be “unhealthy,” which could in turn increase costs of compliance and remediation to us and our franchisees. In addition, business or other incidents, whether isolated or recurring, and whether originating from us, our Concepts’ restaurants, franchisees, competitors, governments, suppliers or distributors, can significantly reduce brand value and consumer perception, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation or investigations. For example, the reputation of our Concepts’ brands could be damaged by claims or perceptions about the quality or safety of our products or the quality or reputation of our suppliers, distributors or franchisees or by claims or perceptions that we, founders of our Concepts, our Concepts’ franchisees or other business partners have acted or are acting in an unethical, illegal, racially-biased or socially irresponsible manner or are not fostering an inclusive and diverse environment, including with respect to the service and treatment of customers at our Concepts’ restaurants, and our or our franchisees’ treatment of employees, regardless of whether such claims or perceptions are true. Our corporate reputation could also suffer from negative publicity or consumer sentiment regarding Company action or brand imagery, misconduct by any of our or our franchisees' employees, or a real or perceived failure of corporate governance. Any such developments could cause a decline directly or indirectly in consumer confidence in, or the perception of, our Concepts’ brands and/or our products and reduce consumer demand for our products, which would likely result in lower revenues and profits. We cannot guarantee that franchisees or other third parties with licenses to use our intellectual property will not take actions that may harm the value of our intellectual property. Franchisee use of our Concepts’ trademarks are governed through franchise agreements and we monitor use of our trademarks by both franchisees and third parties, but franchisees or other third parties may refer to or make statements about our Concepts’ brands that do not make proper use of our trademarks or required designations, that improperly alter trademarks or branding, or that are critical of our Concepts’ brands or place our Concepts’ brands in a context that may tarnish their reputation. Moreover, unauthorized third parties, including our Concepts’ current and former franchisees, may use our intellectual property to trade on the goodwill of our Concepts’ brands, resulting in consumer confusion or brand dilution. Our ability to reach consumers and drive results is heavily influenced by brand marketing and advertising and our ability to adapt to evolving consumer preferences, including developing and launching new and innovative products and offerings. Our marketing and advertising programs may not be as successful, or may not be as successful as our competitors, and thus, may adversely affect our business and the strength of our brand. We may be adversely affected by climate change and other social and environmental sustainability matters, including if we are unable to meet goals and commitments that we establish in relation to such matters. There has been an increased focus, including from investors, the general public and U.S. and foreign governmental and nongovernmental authorities, on social and environmental sustainability matters, including with respect to climate change, greenhouse gases, packaging and waste, human rights, sustainable supply chain practices, animal health and welfare, deforestation and land, energy and water use. As the result of this heightened focus, including from governmental and nongovernmental authorities, and our commitment to social and environmental sustainability matters, we may provide expanded disclosure, establish or expand goals, commitments or targets, and take actions to meet such goals, commitments and targets. Our ability to meet such goals, commitments and targets is subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. If we are not effective, or are not perceived to be effective, in addressing social and environmental sustainability 19 matters or meeting such goals, commitments and targets, consumer trust in our brands may suffer. Moreover, these matters and our efforts to address them could expose us to market, operational, reputational and execution costs or risks. We could also be affected by the physical effects of climate change, and other environmental issues, to the extent such issues adversely affect the general economy, adversely impact our supply chain or increase the costs of food and other supplies needed for our operations. In addition, future U.S. and international legislative and regulatory efforts to combat climate change or other environmental considerations could result in increased regulation, and additional taxes and other expenses, in a manner that adversely affects our business. Risks Related to Government Regulation and Litigation We may be subject to litigation that could adversely affect us by increasing our expenses, diverting management attention or subjecting us to significant monetary damages and other remedies. We are regularly involved in legal proceedings, which include regulatory claims or disputes by claimants such as franchisees, suppliers, employees, customers, governments and others related to operational, foreign exchange, tax, franchise, contractual or employment issues. These claims or disputes may relate to personal injury, franchisees’ employment, real estate related, environmental, tort, intellectual property, breach of contract, data privacy, securities, derivative and other litigation matters. See the discussion of legal proceedings in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Plaintiffs often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties (some of which are beyond the Company’s control). Unfavorable rulings or developments may also occur in cases we are not involved in. Moreover, regardless of whether any such lawsuits have merit, or whether we are ultimately held liable or settle, such litigation may be expensive to defend, may divert resources and management attention away from our operations, and may negatively impact our results of operations. With respect to insured claims, a judgment for monetary damages in excess of any insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also adversely affect our Concepts’ reputations, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in, or noncompliance with, governmental regulations may adversely affect our business operations, growth prospects or financial condition. The Company, and our Concepts and their franchisees, are subject to numerous laws and regulations around the world. These laws and regulations change regularly and are increasingly complex.  For example, we are subject to: • The Americans with Disabilities Act in the U.S. and similar laws that provide protection to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas. • The U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act as well as a variety of similar laws, which govern matters such as minimum wages, and overtime, and the U.S. Family and Medical Leave Act as well as a variety of similar laws which provide protected leave rights to employees. • Employment laws related to workplace health and safety, non-discrimination, non-harassment, whistleblower protections, and other terms and conditions of employment. • Laws and regulations in government-mandated health care benefits such as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act in the U.S. • Laws and regulations relating to nutritional content, nutritional labeling, product safety, product marketing and menu labeling. • Laws relating to state and local licensing. • Laws relating to the relationship between franchisors and franchisees. • Laws and regulations relating to health, sanitation, food, workplace safety, child labor, including laws regulating the use of certain “hazardous equipment”, building and zoning, and fire safety and prevention. • Laws and regulations relating to union organizing rights and activities. • Laws relating to information security, privacy (including the European Union’s GDPR and California’s CCPA and CPRA), cashless payments, and consumer protection. • Laws relating to currency conversion or exchange. • Laws relating to international trade and sanctions. • Tax laws and regulations. • Anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act. • Environmental laws and regulations, including with respect to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. • Federal and state immigration laws and regulations in the U.S. • Regulations, health guidelines and safety protocols related to the COVID-19 pandemic. 20 In addition, if any governmental authority were to adopt and implement a broader standard for determining when two or more otherwise unrelated employers may be found to be a joint employer of the same employees under laws such as the National Labor Relations Act in a manner that is applied generally to franchise relationships (which broader standards in the past have been adopted by U.S. governmental agencies such as the National Labor Relations Board), this could cause us or our Concepts to be liable or held responsible for unfair labor practices and other violations and could subject our Concepts to other liabilities, and/or require our Concepts to conduct collective bargaining negotiations, regarding employees of totally separate, independent employers, most notably our Concepts’ franchisees. Further, a California law enacted in 2019 adopted an employment classification test to be used when determining employee or independent contractor status which establishes a high threshold to obtain independent contractor status. Moreover, other labor related laws enacted at the federal, state or local level could increase our and our franchisees’ labor costs and decrease profitability or could cause employees of our franchisees to be deemed employees of our Concepts. Any failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or related standards or guidelines could adversely affect our reputation, international expansion efforts, growth prospects and financial results or result in, among other things, litigation, revocation of required licenses, internal investigations, governmental investigations or proceedings, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. Publicity relating to any such noncompliance could also harm our Concepts’ reputations and adversely affect our revenues. In addition, the compliance costs associated with complying with new or existing legal requirements could be substantial. Tax matters, including changes in tax rates or laws, disagreements with taxing authorities, imposition of new taxes and our restructurings could impact our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property, withholding and franchise taxes in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. Our accruals for tax liabilities are based on past experience, interpretations of applicable law, and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities, but such accruals require significant judgment which may be incorrect and may result in payments greater than the amounts accrued. If the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) or another taxing authority disagrees with our tax positions, we could face additional tax liabilities, including interest and penalties, which could be material. In addition, public perception that we are not paying a sufficient amount of taxes could damage our Concepts’ reputations, which could harm our profitability. For example, as disclosed in Note 20, as a result of an audit by the IRS for fiscal years 2013 through 2015, on October 13, 2021, we received a Notice of Proposed Adjustment from the IRS for the 2014 fiscal year relating to a series of reorganizations we undertook during that year in connection with the business realignment of our corporate and management reporting structure along brand lines. While we disagree with the position of the IRS and intend to contest it vigorously, an unfavorable resolution of this matter could have a material, adverse impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements in future periods. In addition, changes in laws, regulation or interpretation of existing laws and regulations in the U.S. and other jurisdictions where we are subject to taxation, including potential changes in U.S. tax laws supported by the current U.S. presidential administration, could increase our taxes and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, in January 2022, the U.S. Treasury published new regulations impacting foreign tax credit utilization beginning in the Company’s 2022 tax year. These regulations make foreign taxes paid to certain countries no longer creditable in the U.S. While our determination of which foreign taxes that will no longer be creditable is not yet complete, we anticipate that these regulations are likely to result in additional tax due in the U.S. in future years. See Note 21 for further discussion. Moreover, if significant jurisdictions in which we or our Concepts operate enact tax legislation, modify tax treaties and/or increase audit scrutiny based on the Action on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting guidance of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, it could increase our taxes and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial position. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future adapt our entity and operating structure in response to and in compliance with changes in tax laws, regulations, or interpretation of existing laws and regulations. Such restructurings could result in material incremental tax costs associated with restructuring transactions or operations of the structure. 21 Risks Related to the Yum China Spin-Off The Yum China spin-off and certain related transactions could result in substantial U.S. tax liability. We received opinions of outside counsel substantially to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Yum China spin-off and certain related transactions qualified as generally tax-free under Sections 355 and 361 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. The opinions relied on various facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations as to factual matters and undertakings (including with respect to future conduct) made by Yum China and us. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, we may not be able to rely on these opinions of outside counsel. Accordingly, notwithstanding receipt of the opinions of outside counsel, the conclusions reached in the tax opinions may be challenged by the IRS. Because the opinions are not binding on the IRS or the courts, there can be no assurance that the IRS or the courts will not prevail in any such challenge. If, notwithstanding receipt of any opinion, the IRS were to conclude that the Yum China spin-off was taxable, in general, we would recognize taxable gain as if we had sold the Yum China common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value. In addition, each U.S. holder of our Common Stock who received shares of Yum China common stock in connection with the spin-off transaction would generally be treated as having received a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares of Yum China common stock received. That distribution would be taxable to each such U.S. stockholder as a dividend to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. For each such U.S. stockholder, any amount that exceeded our earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of such stockholder’s tax basis in our shares of Common Stock with any remaining amount being taxed as a capital gain. The Yum China spin-off may be subject to China indirect transfer tax. In February 2015, the Chinese State Tax Administration (“STA”) issued the Bulletin on Several Issues of Enterprise Income Tax on Income Arising from Indirect Transfers of Property by Non-resident Enterprises (“Bulletin 7”). Pursuant to Bulletin 7, an “indirect transfer” of Chinese taxable assets, including equity interests in a China resident enterprise (“Chinese interests”), by a non-resident enterprise, may be recharacterized and treated as a direct transfer of Chinese taxable assets, if such arrangement does not have reasonable commercial purpose and the transferor has avoided payment of Chinese enterprise income tax. Using general anti-tax avoidance provisions, the STA may treat an indirect transfer as a direct transfer of Chinese interests if the transfer has avoided Chinese tax by way of an arrangement without reasonable commercial purpose. As a result, gains derived from such indirect transfer may be subject to Chinese enterprise income tax, and the transferee or other person who is obligated to pay for the transfer would be obligated to withhold the applicable taxes, currently at a rate of up to 10% of the capital gain in the case of an indirect transfer of equity interests in a China resident enterprise. We evaluated the potential applicability of Bulletin 7 in connection with the Separation in the form of a tax free restructuring and continue to believe it is more likely than not that Bulletin 7 does not apply and that the restructuring had reasonable commercial purpose. However, there are significant uncertainties regarding what constitutes a reasonable commercial purpose, how the safe harbor provisions for group restructurings are to be interpreted and how the Chinese tax authorities will ultimately view the spin-off. As a result, our position could be challenged by the Chinese tax authorities resulting in a tax at a rate of 10% assessed on the difference between the fair market value and the tax basis of Yum China. As our tax basis in Yum China was minimal, the amount of such a tax could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. Risks Related to Consumer Discretionary Spending and Macroeconomic Conditions Our business may be adversely impacted by changes in consumer discretionary spending and economic conditions in the U.S. and international markets. As a restaurant company dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, we (and our franchisees) are sensitive to changes in or uncertainty regarding macroeconomic conditions in the U.S. and in other regions of the world where our Concepts and Concepts’ franchisees operate. Some of the factors that impact discretionary consumer spending include unemployment and underemployment rates, fluctuations in the level of disposable income, the price of gasoline, other inflationary pressures, stock market performance and changes in the level of consumer confidence. These and other macroeconomic factors could have an adverse effect on our or our franchisees’ sales, profitability or development plans, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. In this regard, we and our franchisees have been adversely impacted by, and may continue to be adversely impacted by, ongoing macroeconomic challenges in the U.S. and other regions of the world where our Concepts and Concepts’ 22 franchisees operate arising in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, including recent labor, commodity and other inflationary pressures, supply chain disruptions, and impacts arising from governmental restrictions implemented in certain regions to mitigate against the pandemic. In addition, negative macroeconomic conditions or other adverse developments with respect to our businesses may result in future asset impairment charges, such as the goodwill impairment charge we incurred with respect to The Habit Burger Grill reporting unit in the first quarter of 2020. Risks Related to Competition The retail food industry is highly competitive. Our Concepts’ restaurants compete with international, national and regional restaurant chains as well as locally-owned restaurants, and the retail food industry in which our Concepts operate is highly competitive with respect to price and quality of food products, new product development, digital engagement, advertising levels and promotional initiatives (including the frequent use by our competitors of price discounting, such as through value meal menu options, coupons and other methods), customer service, reputation, restaurant location, attractiveness and maintenance of properties, management and hourly personnel and qualified franchisees. Moreover, if we are unable to successfully respond to changing consumer or dietary preferences, if our marketing efforts and/or launch of new products are unsuccessful, or if our Concepts’ restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other retail food outlets in new and existing markets, our and our franchisees’ businesses could be adversely affected. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic has also resulted in a disruption of consumer routines, the implementation of employer “work-from-home” policies, reduced business and recreational travel and changes in consumer behavior, and it is difficult to fully assess the impacts of such developments on us or our Concepts, or the extent to which any such consumer patterns may continue after the COVID-19 pandemic has ended. We also face growing competition as a result of convergence in grocery, convenience, deli and restaurant services, including the offering by the grocery industry of convenient meals, including pizzas and entrees with side dishes.  Competition from delivery aggregators and other food delivery services has increased in recent years, particularly in urbanized areas, and this trend, which has accelerated following the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, is expected to continue to increase. Finally, not all of our competitors may seek to establish environmental or sustainability goals at a comparable level to ours, which could result in lower supply chain or operating costs for our competitors. Increased competition could have an adverse effect on our business or development plans. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness makes us more sensitive to adverse economic conditions, may limit our ability to plan for or respond to significant changes in our business, and requires a significant amount of cash to service our debt payment obligations that we may be unable to generate or obtain. As of December 31, 2021, our total outstanding short-term borrowings and long-term debt was approximately $11.3 billion. Subject to the limits contained in the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness, we may incur additional debt from time to time, which would increase the risks related to our high level of indebtedness. Specifically, our high level of indebtedness could have important potential consequences, including, but not limited to: • increasing our vulnerability to, and reducing our flexibility to plan for and respond to, adverse economic and industry conditions and changes in our business and the competitive environment, including developments arising from the COVID-19 pandemic; • requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends, share repurchases or other corporate purposes; • increasing our vulnerability to a downgrade of our credit rating, which could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity and access to capital markets; • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • placing us at a disadvantage compared to other less leveraged competitors or competitors with comparable debt at more favorable interest rates; • increasing our exposure to the risk of increased interest rates insofar as current and future borrowings are subject to variable rates of interest; • increasing our exposure to the risk of discontinuance, replacement or modification of certain reference rates, including as the result of the upcoming discontinuance of LIBOR, which are used to calculate applicable interest rates of our indebtedness and certain derivative instruments that hedge interest rate risk; • making it more difficult for us to repay, refinance or satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds in the future and increasing the cost of any such borrowing; 23 • imposing restrictive covenants on our operations as the result of the terms of our indebtedness, which, if not complied with, could result in an event of default, which in turn, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the applicable debt, and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies; and • increasing our exposure to risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency as we earn profits in a variety of currencies around the world and our debt is primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future debt or equity financings are not available to us on acceptable terms in amounts sufficient to pay our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. As a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. There is no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flow or refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Introduction and Overview The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”), should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements (“Financial Statements”) in Item 8 and the Forward-Looking Statements and the Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A. All Note references herein refer to the Notes to the Financial Statements. Tabular amounts are displayed in millions of U.S. dollars except per share and unit count amounts, or as otherwise specifically identified. Percentages may not recompute due to rounding. Yum! Brands, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to herein as the “Company”, “YUM”, “we”, “us” or “our”) franchise or operate a system of over 53,000 restaurants in 157 countries and territories, primarily under the concepts of KFC, Taco Bell, Pizza Hut and The Habit Burger Grill (collectively, the “Concepts”). The Company's KFC, Taco Bell and Pizza Hut brands are global leaders of the chicken, Mexican-style and pizza food categories, respectively. The Habit Burger Grill, a concept we acquired in March 2020, is a fast-casual restaurant concept specializing in made-to-order chargrilled burgers, sandwiches and more. Of the over 53,000 restaurants, 98% are operated by franchisees. As of December 31, 2021, YUM consists of four operating segments: • The KFC Division which includes our worldwide operations of the KFC concept • The Taco Bell Division which includes our worldwide operations of the Taco Bell concept • The Pizza Hut Division which includes our worldwide operations of the Pizza Hut concept • The Habit Burger Grill Division which includes our worldwide operations of the Habit Burger Grill concept Through our Recipe for Growth and Good we intend to unlock the growth potential of our Concepts and YUM, drive increased collaboration across our Concepts and geographies and consistently deliver better customer experiences, improved unit economics and higher rates of growth.  Key enablers include accelerated use of technology and better leverage of our systemwide scale. Our Recipe for Growth is based on four key drivers: • Unrivaled Culture and Talent: Leverage our culture and people capability to fuel brand performance and franchise success • Unmatched Operating Capability: Recruit and equip the best restaurant operators in the world to deliver great customer experiences • Relevant, Easy and Distinctive Brands: Innovate and elevate iconic restaurant brands people trust and champion • Bold Restaurant Development: Drive market and franchise expansion with strong economics and value Our global citizenship and sustainability strategy, called the Recipe for Good, reflects our priorities for socially responsible growth, risk management and sustainable stewardship of our people, food and planet. We intend to drive long-term growth and shareholder returns primarily through consistent same-store sales growth and new unit development across all of our Concepts.  We intend to support this growth and development through a capital and operating structure that: • Targets a capital structure of ~5.0x Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (“EBITDA”) consolidated net leverage; • Invests capital in a manner consistent with an asset light, franchisor model; • Allocates G&A in an efficient manner that provides leverage to operating profit growth while at the same time opportunistically investing in strategic growth initiatives; and • Pays a competitive dividend and returns excess cash to shareholders through share repurchases. We intend for this MD&A to provide the reader with information that will assist in understanding our results of operations, including performance metrics that management uses to assess the Company's performance. Throughout this MD&A, we commonly discuss the following performance metrics: 28 • Same-store sales growth is the estimated percentage change in system sales of all restaurants that have been open and in the YUM system for one year or more (except as noted below), including those temporarily closed. From time-to-time restaurants may be temporarily closed due to remodeling or image enhancement, rebuilding, natural disasters, health epidemic or pandemic, landlord disputes or other issues. Throughout 2020 and 2021 we have had a significant number of restaurants that were temporarily closed including restaurants closed due to government and landlord restrictions as a result of COVID-19. The system sales of restaurants we deem temporarily closed remain in our base for purposes of determining same-store sales growth and the restaurants remain in our unit count (see below). We believe same-store sales growth is useful to investors because our results are heavily dependent on the results of our Concepts' existing store base.  Additionally, same-store sales growth is reflective of the strength of our Brands, the effectiveness of our operational and advertising initiatives and local economic and consumer trends. In 2021 and 2020, when calculating respective same-store sales growth we also included in our prior year base the sales of stores that were added as a result of our acquisition of The Habit Restaurants, Inc. on March 18, 2020, and that were open for one year or more.  In 2019, when calculating same-store sales growth we also included in our prior year base the sales of stores that were added as a result of the Food Delivery Brands Group, S.A. (previously named Telepizza Group S.A. (“Telepizza”)) strategic alliance in December 2018 and that were open for one year or more.  See additional discussion of the acquisition of The Habit Restaurants, Inc. and Telepizza strategic alliance within this MD&A. • Gross unit openings reflects new openings by us and our franchisees. Net new unit growth reflects gross unit openings offset by permanent store closures, by us and our franchisees. To determine whether a restaurant meets the definition of a unit we consider factors such as whether the restaurant has operations that are ongoing and independent from another YUM unit, serves the primary product of one of our Concepts, operates under a separate franchise agreement (if operated by a franchisee) and has substantial and sustainable sales.  We believe gross unit openings and net new unit growth are useful to investors because we depend on new units for a significant portion of our growth.  Additionally, gross unit openings and net new unit growth are generally reflective of the economic returns to us and our franchisees from opening and operating our Concept restaurants. • System sales, System sales excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation (“FX”), and System sales excluding FX and the impact of the 53 rd week in 2019 for our U.S. subsidiaries and certain international subsidiaries that operate on a weekly period calendar.  System sales reflect the results of all restaurants regardless of ownership, including Company-owned and franchise restaurants. Sales at franchise restaurants typically generate ongoing franchise and license fees for the Company at a rate of 3% to 6% of sales. Increasingly, customers are paying a fee to a third party to deliver or facilitate the ordering of our Concepts' products. We also include in System sales any portion of the amount customers pay these third parties for which the third party is obligated to pay us a license fee as a percentage of such amount. Franchise restaurant sales and fees paid by customers to third parties to deliver or facilitate the ordering of our Concepts' products are not included in Company sales on the Consolidated Statements of Income; however, any resulting franchise and license fees we receive are included in the Company's revenues. We believe System sales growth is useful to investors as a significant indicator of the overall strength of our business as it incorporates our primary revenue drivers, Company and franchise same-store sales as well as net unit growth. In addition to the results provided in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States of America (“GAAP”), the Company provides the following non-GAAP measurements. • Diluted Earnings Per Share excluding Special Items (as defined below); • Effective Tax Rate excluding Special Items; • Core Operating Profit and Core Operating Profit excluding the impact of the 53rd week in 2019.  Core Operating Profit excludes Special Items and FX and we use Core Operating Profit for the purposes of evaluating performance internally; • Company restaurant profit and Company restaurant margin as a percentage of sales (as defined below). These non-GAAP measurements are not intended to replace the presentation of our financial results in accordance with GAAP. Rather, the Company believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP measurements provide additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations. Special Items are not included in any of our Division segment results as the Company does not believe they are indicative of our ongoing operations due to their size and/or nature.  Our chief operating decision maker does not consider the impact of Special Items when assessing segment performance. 29 Company restaurant profit is defined as Company sales less Company restaurant expenses, both of which appear on the face of our Consolidated Statements of Income. Company restaurant expenses include those expenses incurred directly by our Company-owned restaurants in generating Company sales, including cost of food and paper, cost of restaurant-level labor, rent, depreciation and amortization of restaurant-level assets and advertising expenses incurred by and on behalf of that Company restaurant. Company restaurant margin as a percentage of sales ("Company restaurant margin %") is defined as Company restaurant profit divided by Company sales. We use Company restaurant profit for the purposes of internally evaluating the performance of our Company-owned restaurants and we believe Company restaurant profit provides useful information to investors as to the profitability of our Company-owned restaurants. In calculating Company restaurant profit, the Company excludes revenues and expenses directly associated with our franchise operations as well as non-restaurant-level costs included in General and administrative expenses, some of which may support Company-owned restaurant operations. The Company also excludes restaurant-level asset impairment and closures expenses, which have historically not been significant, from the determination of Company restaurant profit as such expenses are not believed to be indicative of ongoing operations. Company restaurant profit and Company restaurant margin % as presented may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures of other companies in the industry. Certain performance metrics and non-GAAP measurements are presented excluding the impact of FX. These amounts are derived by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates. We believe the elimination of the FX impact provides better year-to-year comparability without the distortion of foreign currency fluctuations. For 2019 we provided Core Operating Profit excluding the impact of the 53rd week and System sales excluding FX and the impact of the 53rd week to further enhance the comparability given the 53rd week that was part of our fiscal calendar in 2019. Results of Operations Summary All comparisons within this summary are versus the same period a year ago and unless otherwise stated include the impact of a 53rd week in 2019.  For discussion of our results of operations for 2020 compared to 2019, refer to the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Part II, Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020, filed with the SEC on February 22, 2021. For 2021, GAAP diluted EPS increased 77% to $5.21 per share, and diluted EPS, excluding Special Items, increased 23% to $4.46 per share. 2021 financial highlights: Additionally: • During the year, 4,180 gross units were opened contributing to the addition of 3,057 net new units • During the year, we repurchased 13 million shares totaling $1,580 million at an average price of $121.70. • Foreign currency translation favorably impacted Divisional Operating Profit for the year by $54 million. 30 Worldwide GAAP Results (a) See Note 4 for the number of shares used in this calculation. Performance Metrics 31 Our system sales breakdown by Company and franchise sales was as follows: (a) Company sales represents sales from our Company-operated stores as presented on our Consolidated Statements of Income. 32 (b) The foreign currency impact on System sales is presented in relation only to the immediately preceding year presented.  When determining applicable System sales growth percentages, the System sales excluding FX for the current year should be compared to the prior year System sales prior to adjustment for the prior year FX impact. (c) System sales for the Habit Burger Grill Division is shown since our March 18, 2020 acquisition date. (a) Due to their size and volatility we have reflected as Special Items those refranchising gains and losses that were recorded in connection with our previously announced plans to have at least 98% franchise restaurant ownership by the end of 2018. As such, refranchising gains and losses recorded during 2021, 2020 and 2019 as Special Items are directly associated with restaurants that were refranchised prior to the end of 2018. During the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, we recorded net refranchising gains of $3 million, $8 million and $12 million, respectively, that have been reflected as Special Items. Additionally, during the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, we recorded net refranchising gains of $32 million, $26 million, and $25 million, respectively, that have not been reflected as Special Items. These gains relate to 33 refranchising of restaurants in 2021, 2020 and 2019 that were not part of our aforementioned plans to achieve 98% franchise ownership and that we believe are now more indicative of our expected ongoing refranchising activity. (b) In May 2017, we reached an agreement with our Pizza Hut U.S. franchisees that improved brand marketing alignment, accelerated enhancements in operations and technology and that included a permanent commitment to incremental advertising as well as digital and technology contributions by franchisees. In connection with this agreement, we recognized charges of $5 million and $13 million in the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, related to operating investments required as part of this agreement. The majority of these costs were recorded within Franchise and property expenses. Based on their nature and the significance in related spending in 2017, these charges have been reflected as Special Items. (c) During the second quarter of 2019, we recorded charges of $8 million and $2 million to Other (income) expense and Interest expense, net, respectively, related to cash payments in excess of our recorded liability to settle contingent consideration associated with our 2013 acquisition of the KFC Turkey and Pizza Hut Turkey businesses. Consistent with prior adjustments to the recorded contingent consideration we have reflected this as a Special Item. (d) On June 1, 2021, certain subsidiaries of the Company redeemed $1,050 million aggregate principal amount of 5.25% Subsidiary Senior Unsecured Notes due in 2026 (the “2026 Notes”). The redemption amount was equal to 102.625% of the $1,050 million aggregate principal amount redeemed, reflecting a $28 million “call premium”. We recognized the call premium and the write-off of $6 million of unamortized debt issuance costs associated with the 2026 Notes within Interest expense, net. On September 9, 2020, KFC Holding Co., Pizza Hut Holdings, LLC and Taco Bell of America, LLC, each of which a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, issued a notice of redemption for $1,050 million aggregate principal amount of 5.00% Subsidiary Senior Unsecured Notes due in 2024 (the "2024 Notes"). The redemption amount included a $26 million call premium plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption of October 9, 2020. We recorded the call premium, $6 million of unamortized debt issuance costs associated with the 2024 Notes and $2 million of accrued and unpaid interest associated with the period of time from prepayment of the 2024 Notes with the Trustee on September 25, 2020, to their redemption date within Interest expense, net. We reflected the call premiums and charges associated with the redemptions as Special Items due to their collective size and the fact that the amounts are not indicative of our ongoing interest expense. (e) Tax (Expense) Benefit on Special Items was determined based upon the impact of the nature, as well as the jurisdiction of the respective individual components within Special Items. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recorded as a Special Item an $8 million tax benefit related to prior refranchisings for which the associated pre-tax gain or loss was recorded as Special. Further, in the fourth quarter of 2019, we increased our Income tax provision by $34 million to record a reserve against the tax recorded on a prior year divestiture, the effects of which were previously recorded as a Special Item. 34 35 (a) The foreign currency impact on reported Operating Profit is presented in relation only to the immediately preceding year presented. When determining applicable Core Operating Profit growth percentages, the Core Operating Profit for the current year should be compared to the prior year GAAP Operating Profit adjusted only for any prior year Special Items Income (Expense). Reconciliation of GAAP Operating Profit to Company Restaurant Profit 36 Items Impacting Reported Results and/or Reasonably Likely to Impact Future Results The following items impacted reported results in 2021 and/or 2020 and/or are reasonably likely to impact future results.  See also the Detail of Special Items section of this M&DA for other items similarly impacting results. COVID-19 In late 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus, COVID-19, was first detected and in March 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a global pandemic. Throughout 2020 and 2021, COVID-19 spread throughout the U.S. and the rest of the world and governmental authorities have implemented measures to reduce the spread of COVID-19. These measures include restrictions on travel outside the home and other limitations on business and other activities as well as encouraging social distancing. As a result of COVID-19, we and our franchisees have experienced significant store closures and instances of reduced store-level operations, including reduced operating hours and dining-room closures. The impact on our sales in each of our markets has been dependent on the timing, severity and duration of the outbreak, measures implemented by government authorities to reduce the spread of COVID-19, as well as our reliance on dine-in sales in the market. Our results were significantly impacted by the impacts of COVID-19 in the year ended December 31, 2020, as evidenced by our worldwide same-store sales decline of 6%. Overall, our sales declines were primarily driven by temporary store closures, which peaked in early April 2020 at about 11,000 restaurants and ended 2020 at about 830 restaurants. In addition to the loss of sales due to restaurants being temporarily closed, we also lost sales due to dining room closures or other limitations on access. Beginning in 2020 and continuing throughout 2021 we were able to mitigate the loss of sales due to temporary unit closures, dining room closures or other limitations on access through the strength of our off-premise channels, aided by increasing consumer access to our brands via digital channels. As a result, each of our Concepts recorded positive same-store sales growth for the year, contributing to our worldwide same-store sales increase of 10% in 2021 which was driven by strong performance in developed markets such as North America and the United Kingdom. As we ended the year, COVID-19 outbreaks and resulting government restrictions limiting mobility continued to impact sales in a few key markets, primarily in Asia. We also saw strong gross unit openings of 4,180 units for the year ended December 31, 2021, which we believe is primarily a result of improving unit-level economics, our franchisees’ financial strength and commitment to our Concepts, the inherent competitive advantages of the Quick Service Restaurant sector throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, our Concepts’ off-premise and digital capabilities, as well as selective use of development incentives with certain franchisees. The COVID-19 situation is ongoing, and its dynamic nature makes it difficult to forecast any impacts on the Company's 2022 results. The ultimate pace of our recovery will largely depend on the continuation of current sales trends, although we expect continuing adverse impacts from COVID-19 in certain parts of the world.  In addition, for our restaurants that prominently 37 feature drive-thru, carryout and delivery options, COVID-19 has in many cases contributed to an increase in sales during 2021 and 2020. If the impact of COVID-19 recedes, in-person dining restrictions are lifted or lessened and the restaurant industry in general returns to more normal operations, the benefits to sales experienced by certain of our restaurants, including our Pizza Hut delivery restaurants, could wane and our results could be negatively impacted. Franchise Bad Debt Expense We experienced significant quarterly fluctuations in franchise bad debt expense in 2021 and 2020 due in large part to the uncertainties associated with COVID-19.  During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recognized net bad debt recoveries of $8 million related to short-term accounts receivable due from our franchisees for royalties, rent and other services we provide, which were primarily reflected within Franchise and property expenses. These net bad debt recoveries of $8 million compared to $13 million of net bad debt expense recognized in the year ended December 31, 2020, and thus positively impacted Operating Profit growth by $21 million year-over-year. Investment in Devyani In 2020, we received an approximate 5% minority interest in Devyani International Limited (“Devyani”), an entity that operates KFC and Pizza Hut franchised units in India. The minority interest was received in lieu of cash proceeds upon the refranchising of approximately 60 KFC restaurants in India. At the time of the refranchisings, the fair value of this minority interest was estimated to be approximately $31 million. On August 16, 2021, Devyani executed an initial public offering and subsequently the fair value of this investment became readily determinable. As a result, concurrent with the initial public offering we began recording changes in fair value in Investment (income) expense, net in our Consolidated Statements of Income and recognized pre-tax investment income of $87 million, in the year ended December 31, 2021. Investment in Grubhub, Inc. ("Grubhub") In April of 2018 we purchased 2.8 million shares of Grubhub common stock for $200 million. In the quarter ended September 30, 2020, we sold our entire investment in Grubhub and received proceeds of $206 million.  While we held our investment in Grubhub common stock we recognized changes in the fair value in our investment in our Consolidated Statements of Income. For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, we recognized pre-tax investment income of $69 million and pre-tax investment expense of $77 million, respectively, related to changes in fair value of our investment in Grubhub common stock. Extra Week in 2019 Fiscal 2019 included a 53rd week for all of our U.S. and certain international subsidiaries that operate on a period calendar. See Note 2 for additional details related to our fiscal calendar.  The following table summarizes the estimated impact of the 53rd week on Revenues and Operating Profit for the year ended December 31, 2019.  The 53rd week in 2019 favorably impacted Diluted EPS by $0.05 per share. 38 KFC Division The KFC Division has 26,934 units, 85% of which are located outside the U.S.  Additionally, 99% of the KFC Division units were operated by franchisees as of the end of 2021. 39 Company sales and Company restaurant margin % In 2021, the increase in Company sales, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation, was driven by company same-store sales growth of 17%, partially offset by refranchising. In 2021, the increase in Company restaurant margin percentage was driven by company same-store sales growth, partially offset by higher restaurant operating costs. Franchise and property revenues In 2021, the increase in Franchise and property revenues, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation, was driven by franchise same-store sales growth of 11% and unit growth. G&A In 2021, the increase in G&A, excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, was driven by higher expenses related to our annual incentive compensation program and higher professional fees, partially offset by lower share-based compensation. Operating Profit In 2021, the increase in Operating Profit, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation, was driven by same-store sales growth, unit growth, and current year net bad debt recoveries lapping prior year net bad debt expense for past due franchise receivables, partially offset by higher G&A. Taco Bell Division The Taco Bell Division has 7,791 units, 90% of which are in the U.S.  The Company owned 7% of the Taco Bell units in the U.S. as of the end of 2021. 40 Company sales and Company restaurant margin % In 2021, the increase in Company sales was driven by same-store sales growth of 7% and unit growth partially offset by refranchising. In 2021, the decrease in Company restaurant margin percentage was driven by higher restaurant operating costs, principally labor and commodities, partially offset by same-store sales growth. Franchise and property revenues In 2021, the increase in Franchise and property revenues was driven by franchise same-store sales growth of 11% and unit growth. G&A In 2021, the increase in G&A, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation, was driven by higher expenses related to our annual incentive compensation programs, higher professional fees and higher charitable contributions, partially offset by lower headcount and lower share-based compensation. Operating Profit In 2021, the increase in Operating Profit was driven by same-store sales growth and unit growth, partially offset by higher restaurant operating costs and higher G&A costs. Pizza Hut Division The Pizza Hut Division has 18,381 units, 64% of which are located outside the U.S.  Over 99% of the Pizza Hut Division units were operated by franchisees as of the end of 2021.  The Pizza Hut Division uses multiple distribution channels including delivery, dine-in and express (e.g. airports) and includes units operating under both the Pizza Hut and Telepizza brands. On December 30, 2018, the Company consummated a strategic alliance with Food Delivery Brands Group, S.A. (previously named Telepizza Group S.A. (“Telepizza”)), to be the master franchisee of Pizza Hut in Latin America and portions of Europe, which added approximately 1,300 Telepizza units to our Pizza Hut Division unit count on December 30, 2018. The addition of the Telepizza units positively impacted 2019 Pizza Hut Division system sales growth, excluding the impacts of foreign currency and 53rd week, by 5 percentage points.  The impact to Operating Profit for the year ended December 31, 2019, as a result of the strategic alliance was not significant. 41 Company sales In 2021, the decrease in Company sales, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation, was driven by the refranchising of stores in the United Kingdom, partially offset by company same-store sales growth of 7%. Franchise and property revenues In 2021, the increase in Franchise and property revenues, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation, was driven by franchise same-store sales growth of 7%. G&A In 2021, the decrease in G&A, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation, was driven by lower headcount and lower share-based compensation, partially offset by higher expenses related to our annual incentive compensation programs. Operating Profit In 2021, the increase in Operating Profit, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation, was driven by same-store sales growth, lower G&A and current year net bad debt recoveries lapping prior year net bad debt expense for past due franchise receivables, partially offset by higher Franchise advertising and other services expense primarily related to digital and technology expenses. 42 Habit Burger Grill Division The Habit Burger Grill Division has 318 units, the vast majority of which are in the U.S. The Company owned 90% of the Habit Burger Grill units in the U.S. as of December 31, 2021. Corporate & Unallocated Corporate and unallocated G&A In 2021, the decrease in Corporate and unallocated G&A expenses was driven by lapping higher prior year cost for charitable contributions including $50 million related to our “Unlocking Opportunity Initiative” and $25 million related to COVID-19 relief (see Note 5).  The decrease was also driven by lapping prior year costs associated with a voluntary early retirement programs offered to our U.S. based employees and a worldwide severance program (see Note 5), offset by higher current year expenses related to our annual incentive compensation programs and increased headcount supporting our technology initiatives. Unallocated Other income (expense) Unallocated Other income (expense) for the year ended December 31, 2020, includes a charge of $144 million related to the impairment of Habit Burger Grill goodwill (see Note 3). Interest expense, net The increase in Interest expense, net for 2021 was primarily driven by increased outstanding borrowings offset by a lower weighted average-interest rate. 43 Consolidated Cash Flows Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,706 million in 2021 versus $1,305 million in 2020. The increase was largely driven by an increase in Operating profit before Special Items, the lapping of charitable contributions reflected as Special Items and an increase in upfront fees received, partially offset by the timing of accounts receivable collections and higher advertising spending. Net cash used in investing activities was $173 million in 2021 versus $335 million in 2020. The change was primarily driven by the lapping of our prior year acquisition of The Habit Restaurants, Inc., higher refranchising proceeds in the current year and the current year sale of certain mutual fund investments, partially offset by the lapping of prior year proceeds from the sale of our investment in Grubhub, Inc. common stock, the current year acquisition of Dragontail Systems Limited and higher current year capital spending. Net cash used in financing activities was $1,767 million in 2021 versus $738 million in 2020.  The change was primarily driven by higher share repurchases, partially offset by higher net borrowings. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have historically generated substantial cash flows from our extensive franchise operations, which require a limited YUM investment, and from the operations of our Company-owned stores. Our annual operating cash flows have been in excess of $1.3 billion in each of the past three years and we expect that to continue to be the case in 2022.  It is our intent to use these operating cash flows to continue to invest in growing our business and pay a competitive dividend, with any remaining excess then returned to shareholders through share repurchases. To the extent operating cash flows plus other sources of cash do not cover our anticipated cash needs, we maintain a $1.25 billion Revolving Facility under our Credit Agreement (see Note 11) that was undrawn as of December 31, 2021. We believe that our ongoing cash from operations, cash on hand, which was approximately $500 million at December 31, 2021, and availability under our Revolving Facility will be sufficient to fund our cash requirements over the next twelve months. Our material cash requirements include the following contractual and other obligations. Debt Obligations and Interest Payments As of December 31, 2021, approximately 93%, including the impact of interest rate swaps, of our $11.3 billion of total debt outstanding, excluding finance leases and debt issuance costs and discounts, is fixed with an effective overall interest rate of approximately 4.2%. We currently target a capital structure which reflects consolidated leverage, net of available cash, of ~5.0x EBITDA and which we believe provides an attractive balance between optimized interest rates, duration and flexibility with diversified sources of liquidity and maturities spread over multiple years. We have credit ratings of BB (Standard & Poor's)/Ba2 (Moody's) with a balance sheet consistent with highly-levered peer restaurant franchise companies. The following table summarizes the future maturities of our outstanding long-term debt, excluding finance leases and debt issuance costs and discounts, as of December 31, 2021. Interest payments on the outstanding long-term debt in the table above total $3,384 million, with $464 million due within the next twelve months on the outstanding amounts on a nominal basis. The estimated interest payments related to the variable rate portion of our debt are based on current LIBOR interest rates. See Note 11 for details on the Securitization Notes, the Credit Agreement, Subsidiary Senior Unsecured Notes and YUM Senior Unsecured Notes. 44 Operating and Finance Leases Payments required under our operating and finance leases total $1,252 million, of which $141 million is payable within the next 12 months. These amounts are on a nominal basis and include payments related to lease renewal options we are reasonably certain to exercise. These leases relate primarily to approximately 700 Company-owned restaurants and approximately 300 leased restaurants for which we sublease land, building or both to our franchisees.  See Note 12. Capital Expenditures We remain committed to maintaining our asset light, franchisor model that includes at least a 98% franchise mix. Our allocation strategy for capital expenditures includes: • Run-rate capital expenditures consisting of company restaurant repairs, maintenance and remodels, support of our digital and technology initiatives and project-specific capital expenditures, • Targeted new company unit development to spur additional growth that is largely funded through refranchising a comparable number of existing company units, and • Strategic investments that create incremental value for shareholders and franchisees. In 2022, we expect that new store investments will exceed refranchising proceeds by $50 to $100 million, primarily driven by our strategy to accelerate growth of the Habit Burger Grill equity estate. This will result in net capital expenditures of approximately $250 million, reflecting up to $350 million of gross capital expenditures and $100 million of refranchising proceeds. Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on us and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. We have excluded agreements that are cancellable without penalty. Our purchase obligations relate primarily to marketing, information technology and supply agreements. We have purchase obligations of approximately $420 million at December 31, 2021, with approximately $240 million due within the next 12 months. In addition to our contractual and other obligations, we seek to pay a competitive dividend and return excess cash to shareholders through share repurchases. As discussed in Note 20, we are also subject to claims and contingencies related to certain tax and legal matters that may require future cash outlays. Dividends and Share Repurchases In February 2022, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.57 per share of Common Stock, a 14% increase from the quarterly dividend of $.50 per share of Common Stock paid in 2021. This quarterly dividend will be distributed March 11, 2022 to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 18, 2022, and will total approximately $165 million. In May 2021, our Board of Directors authorized share repurchases from July 1, 2021 through December 31, 2022 of up to $2 billion (excluding applicable transaction fees) of our outstanding Common Stock. As of December 31, 2021, we have remaining capacity to repurchase up to $950 million of Common Stock under this authorization. This authorization does not obligate the Company to acquire any specific number of shares. Contingencies As discussed in Note 20, as a result of an audit by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for fiscal years 2013 through 2015, on October 13, 2021, we received a Notice of Proposed Adjustment (“NPA”) from the IRS for the 2014 fiscal year relating to a series of reorganizations we undertook during that year in connection with the business realignment of our corporate and management reporting structure along brand lines. The IRS asserts that these reorganizations involved taxable distributions of approximately $6.0 billion. We expect to receive the final Revenue Agent’s Report (“RAR”) including the IRS’s calculation of the tax assessment in early 2022. The amount of additional tax that may be asserted by the IRS in the RAR cannot be quantified at this time; however, based on the NPA, the amount of additional tax to be proposed is expected to be material. We disagree with the IRS’s position as asserted in the NPA and intend to contest it vigorously by filing a protest disputing on multiple grounds any proposed taxes and proceeding to the IRS Office of Appeals. 45 Also, as discussed in Note 20, on January 29, 2020, we received an order from the Special Director of the Directorate of Enforcement in India imposing a penalty on Yum! Restaurants India Private Limited of approximately Indian Rupee 11 billion, or approximately $150 million, primarily relating to alleged violations of operating conditions imposed in 1993 and 1994. We have been advised by external counsel that the order is flawed and have filed a writ petition with the Delhi High Court, which granted an interim stay of the penalty order on March 5, 2020. The stay order remains in effect, and the next hearing is scheduled for March 4, 2022. We deny liability and intend to continue vigorously defending this matter. We do not consider the risk of any significant loss arising from this order to be probable. See the Lease Guarantees section of Note 20 for discussion of our off-balance sheet arrangements. New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In March 2020, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued guidance related to reference rate reform.  The pronouncement provides temporary optional expedients and exceptions to the current guidance on contract modifications and hedge accounting to ease the financial reporting burdens related to the expected market transition from LIBOR and other interbank offered rates to alternative reference rates.  The guidance was effective upon issuance and generally can be applied to applicable contract modifications through December 31, 2022.  We are currently evaluating the impact of the transition from LIBOR to alternative reference rates, including the impact on our interest rate swaps. As of December 30, 2021, our interest rate swaps which expire in March 2025, had notional amounts of $1.5 billion. These interest rate swaps are designated cash flow hedges. We do not anticipate the impact of adopting this standard will be material to our Financial Statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our reported results are impacted by the application of certain accounting policies that require us to make subjective or complex judgments.  These judgments involve estimations of the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may significantly impact our quarterly or annual results of operations or financial condition.  Changes in the estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations and financial condition and cash flows in future years.  A description of what we consider to be our most significant critical accounting policies follows. Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets We review long-lived assets of restaurants we intend to continue operating as Company restaurants (primarily PP&E, right-of-use operating lease assets and allocated intangible assets subject to amortization) annually for impairment, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a restaurant may not be recoverable.  We evaluate recoverability based on the restaurant’s forecasted undiscounted cash flows, which incorporate our best estimate of sales growth and margin improvement based upon our plans for the unit and actual results at comparable restaurants.  For restaurant assets that are deemed to not be recoverable, we write-down the impaired restaurant to its estimated fair value.  Key assumptions in the determination of fair value are the future after-tax cash flows of the restaurant, which are reduced by future royalties a franchisee would pay, and a discount rate.  The after-tax cash flows incorporate reasonable sales growth and margin improvement assumptions that would be used by a franchisee in the determination of a purchase price for the restaurant.  Estimates of future cash flows are highly subjective judgments and can be significantly impacted by changes in the business or economic conditions. In each of the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2019 our primary indicator of potential impairment for our restaurant assets was two consecutive years of operating losses. For the year ended December 31, 2020, as a result of the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic this indicator was expanded to include restaurants that were open less than two years with cumulative operating losses for the last year or cumulative operating losses since the store open date if open less than one year. We perform an impairment evaluation at a restaurant group level when it is more likely than not that we will refranchise restaurants as a group.  Expected net sales proceeds are generally based on actual bids from the buyer, if available, or anticipated bids given the discounted projected after-tax cash flows for the group of restaurants.  Historically, these anticipated bids have been reasonably accurate estimations of the proceeds ultimately received.  The after-tax cash flows used in determining the anticipated bids incorporate reasonable assumptions we believe a franchisee would make such as sales growth and margin improvement as well as expectations as to the useful lives of the restaurant assets.  These after-tax cash flows also include a deduction for the anticipated, future royalties we would receive under a franchise agreement with terms substantially at market entered into simultaneously with the refranchising transaction. 46 The discount rate used in the fair value calculations is our estimate of the required rate of return that a franchisee would expect to receive when purchasing a similar restaurant or groups of restaurants and the related long-lived assets.  The discount rate incorporates rates of returns for historical refranchising market transactions and is commensurate with the risks and uncertainty inherent in the forecasted cash flows. We evaluate indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis as of the beginning of our fourth quarter or more often if an event occurs or circumstances change that indicates impairment might exist. Fair value is an estimate of the price a willing buyer would pay for the intangible asset and is generally estimated by discounting the expected future after-tax cash flows associated with the intangible asset. Our most significant indefinite-lived intangible asset is our Habit Burger Grill brand asset with a book value of $96 million at December 31, 2021. As of our fourth quarter 2021 annual impairment testing date, the Habit Burger Grill’s forecasted results have improved from those used in determining the brand asset fair value as part of the prior year impairment test. As such, the fair values of all of our indefinite-lived intangible assets at December 31, 2021, were in excess of their respective carrying values and no impairment was recorded. Impairment of Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment on an annual basis as of the beginning of our fourth quarter or more often if an event occurs or circumstances change that indicates impairment might exist.  Goodwill is evaluated for impairment by determining whether the fair value of our reporting units exceed their carrying values.  Our reporting units are our business units (which are aligned based on geography) in our KFC, Taco Bell, Pizza Hut and Habit Burger Grill Divisions. Fair value is the price a willing buyer would pay for the reporting unit, and is generally estimated using discounted expected future after-tax cash flows from franchise royalties and Company-owned restaurant operations, if any.  Future cash flow estimates and the discount rate are the key assumptions when estimating the fair value of a reporting unit. Future cash flows are based on growth expectations relative to recent historical performance and incorporate sales growth (from net new units or same-store sales growth) and margin improvement (for those reporting units which include Company-owned restaurant operations) assumptions that we believe a third-party buyer would assume when determining a purchase price for the reporting unit.  Any margin improvement assumptions that factor into the discounted cash flows are highly correlated with sales growth as cash flow growth can be achieved through various interrelated strategies such as product pricing and restaurant productivity initiatives. The discount rate is our estimate of the required rate of return that a third-party buyer would expect to receive when purchasing a business from us that constitutes a reporting unit. We believe the discount rate is commensurate with the risks and uncertainty inherent in the forecasted cash flows. The fair values of all our reporting units with goodwill balances were in excess of their respective carrying values as of our fourth quarter 2021 goodwill testing date, with all but the Habit Burger Grill reporting unit having fair values that were substantially in excess of their respective carrying values as of the 2021 goodwill testing date. As it relates to our Habit Burger Grill reporting unit, assumptions for unit growth and same-store sales growth utilized in the fourth quarter 2021 annual impairment test improved as compared to the prior year impairment test, due in large part to the continued recovery from the impacts of COVID-19. As such, the fair value of the reporting unit increased versus prior year. When we refranchise restaurants, we include goodwill in the carrying amount of the restaurants disposed of based on the relative fair values of the portion of the reporting unit disposed of in the refranchising versus the portion of the reporting unit that will be retained.  The fair value of the portion of the reporting unit disposed of in a refranchising is determined by reference to the discounted value of the future cash flows expected to be generated by the restaurant and retained by the franchisee, which include a deduction for the anticipated, future royalties the franchisee will pay us associated with the franchise agreement entered into simultaneously with the refranchising transaction.  Appropriate adjustments are made to the fair value determinations if such franchise agreement is determined to not be at prevailing market rates.  When determining whether such franchise agreement is at prevailing market rates our primary consideration is consistency with the terms of our current franchise agreements both within the country that the restaurants are being refranchised in and around the world.  The Company believes consistency in royalty rates as a percentage of sales is appropriate as the Company and franchisee share in the impact of near-term fluctuations in sales results with the acknowledgment that over the long-term the royalty rate represents an appropriate rate for both parties. The discounted value of the future cash flows expected to be generated by the restaurant and retained by the franchisee is reduced by future royalties the franchisee will pay the Company.  The Company thus considers the fair value of future royalties to be received under the franchise agreement as fair value retained in its determination of the goodwill to be written off when refranchising.  Others may consider the fair value of these future royalties as fair value disposed of and thus would conclude that a larger percentage of a reporting unit’s fair value is disposed of in a refranchising transaction. 47 During 2021, refranchising activity completed by the Company was limited and the write-off of goodwill associated with these transactions was approximately $3 million. Pension Plans Certain of our employees are covered under defined benefit pension plans.  Our two most significant plans are in the U.S. and combined had a projected benefit obligation (“PBO”) of $1,069 million and a fair value of plan assets of $1,010 million at December 31, 2021. The PBO reflects the actuarial present value of all benefits earned to date by employees and incorporates assumptions as to future compensation levels.  Due to the relatively long time frame over which benefits earned to date are expected to be paid, our PBOs are highly sensitive to changes in discount rates.  For our U.S. plans, we measured our PBOs using a discount rate of 3.00% at December 31, 2021.  The primary basis for this discount rate determination is a model that consists of a hypothetical portfolio of ten or more corporate debt instruments rated Aa or higher by Moody’s or Standard & Poor's ("S&P") with cash flows that mirror our expected benefit payment cash flows under the plans.  We exclude from the model those corporate debt instruments flagged by Moody’s or S&P for a potential downgrade (if the potential downgrade would result in a rating below Aa by both Moody's and S&P) and bonds with yields that were two standard deviations or more above the mean.  In considering possible bond portfolios, the model allows the bond cash flows for a particular year to exceed the expected benefit payment cash flows for that year.  Such excesses are assumed to be reinvested at appropriate one-year forward rates and used to meet the benefit payment cash flows in a future year.  The weighted-average yield of this hypothetical portfolio was used to arrive at an appropriate discount rate.  We also ensure that changes in the discount rate as compared to the prior year are consistent with the overall change in prevailing market rates and make adjustments as necessary. A 50 basis-point increase in this discount rate would have decreased these U.S. plans’ PBOs by approximately $65 million at our measurement date.  Conversely, a 50 basis-point decrease in this discount rate would have increased our U.S. plans’ PBOs by approximately $72 million at our measurement date. The net periodic benefit cost we will record in 2022 is also impacted by the discount rate, as well as the long-term rates of return on plan assets and mortality assumptions we selected at our measurement date.  We expect net periodic benefit cost for our U.S. plans to decrease approximately $8 million in 2022.  A 50 basis-point change in our discount rate assumption at our 2021 measurement date would impact our 2022 U.S. net periodic benefit cost by approximately $6 million.  The impacts of changes in net periodic benefit costs are reflected primarily in Other pension (income) expense. Our estimated long-term rate of return on U.S. plan assets is based upon the weighted-average of historical and expected future returns for each asset category.  Our expected long-term rate of return on U.S. plan assets, for purposes of determining 2022 pension expense, at December 31, 2021, was 5.40%, net of administrative and investment fees paid from plan assets.  We believe this rate is appropriate given the composition of our plan assets and historical market returns thereon.  A 100 basis point change in our expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption would impact our 2022 U.S. net periodic benefit cost by approximately $9 million.  Additionally, every 100 basis point variation in actual return on plan assets versus our expected return of 5.40% will impact our unrecognized pre-tax actuarial net loss by approximately $9 million. A decrease in discount rates over time has largely contributed to an unrecognized pre-tax actuarial net loss of $33 million included in Accumulated other comprehensive income for these U.S. plans at December 31, 2021.  We will recognize approximately $11 million of such loss in net periodic benefit cost in 2022 versus $14 million recognized in 2021. Income Taxes At December 31, 2021, we had valuation allowances of $462 million to reduce our $1,541 million of deferred tax assets to amounts that are more likely than not to be realized. The net deferred tax assets primarily relate to temporary differences in profitable U.S. federal, state and foreign jurisdictions and net operating losses in certain foreign jurisdictions, the majority of which do not expire.  In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets, we consider future taxable income in the various jurisdictions, carryforward periods, restrictions on usage and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. The estimation of future taxable income in these jurisdictions and our resulting ability to utilize deferred tax assets can significantly change based on future events, including our determinations as to feasibility of certain tax planning strategies and refranchising plans. Thus, recorded valuation allowances may be subject to material future changes. As a matter of course, we are regularly audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. We recognize the benefit of positions taken or expected to be taken in our tax returns in our Income tax provision when it is more likely than not that the position would be sustained upon examination by these tax authorities. A recognized tax position is then measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely of being realized upon settlement. At December 31, 2021, we had $116 48 million of unrecognized tax benefits, $75 million of which would impact the effective tax rate if recognized. We evaluate unrecognized tax benefits, including interest thereon, on a quarterly basis to ensure that they have been appropriately adjusted for events, including audit settlements, which may impact our ultimate payment for such exposures. Repatriation of earnings generated after December 31, 2017, will generally be eligible for the 100% dividends received deduction or considered a distribution of previously taxed income and, therefore, exempt from U.S. federal tax. Undistributed foreign earnings may still be subject to certain state and foreign income and withholding taxes upon repatriation. Subject to limited exceptions, we do not intend to indefinitely reinvest our unremitted earnings outside the U.S. Thus, we have  provided taxes, including any U.S. federal and state income, foreign income, or foreign withholding taxes on the majority of our unremitted earnings. In jurisdictions where we do intend to indefinitely reinvest our unremitted earnings, we would be required to accrue and pay applicable income taxes (if any) and foreign withholding taxes if the funds were repatriated in taxable transactions. We believe any such taxes would be immaterial.