********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should carefully review the risks described below as they identify important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements, expectations and historical trends. Any of the following risk factors, either by itself or together with other risk factors, could materially adversely affect our business, growth prospects, results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. Risks Related to Food Safety and Catastrophic Events Food safety and food- or beverage-borne illness concerns may have an adverse effect on our business and/or our growth prospects. Food or beverage-borne illnesses (that can be caused by food-borne pathogens such as E. coli, Listeria, Salmonella, Cyclospora and Trichinosis) and food safety issues (such as food tampering, contamination including with respect to allergens or adulteration) have occurred and may occur within our system from time to time. In addition, the health and environmental risks of certain ubiquitous substances (including per-and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS)) commonly found in packaging have been the subject of increased regulatory scrutiny and lawsuits against other restaurant companies. Any report linking our or our Concepts’ franchisees’ restaurants, our suppliers or distributors or otherwise involving the types of products used at our restaurants, or linking our competitors, suppliers, distributors or the retail food industry generally, to instances of food- or beverage-borne illness or food safety issues or substances having perceived health or environmental risks could result in adverse publicity and otherwise adversely affect us and possibly lead to consumer complaints, litigation and/or governmental investigations. There is also a risk that we or our Concepts’ franchisees’ restaurants, suppliers or distributors under report food safety incidents or system failures, which could hinder response and tracking of such risks. Moreover, our Concepts’ restaurants' reliance on third-party food suppliers and distributors and increasing reliance on food delivery aggregators may increase the risk that food- or beverage-borne illness incidents and food safety issues could be caused by factors outside of our control. If a customer is believed to have become ill from food or beverage-borne illnesses or as a result of food safety issues, remediation efforts could include temporary closure of restaurants, which could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our reputation, business and/or our growth prospects. The occurrence of food-borne pathogens in restaurant products or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, which could result in disruptions in our supply chain and/or lower margins for us and our Concepts’ franchisees. Our business and/or growth prospects may be adversely affected by public health conditions associated with the coronavirus (“COVID-19”), or the occurrence of other catastrophic or unforeseen events, such as future health epidemics, or natural disasters, geopolitical events, acts of war and events that lead to avoidance of public places or restrictions on public gatherings. If public health conditions related to COVID-19 significantly worsen in markets where we conduct significant operations, our business and financial results could be adversely impacted, and we may be unable to effectively respond to any such developments. In addition, our business and/or growth prospects could be adversely impacted by various other future occurrences (which may be beyond our control), including health epidemics or pandemics, natural disasters, geopolitical events, acts of war, terrorism, political, financial or social instability, boycotts, social or civil unrest, workplace violence, or other events that lead to avoidance of public places or restrictions on public gatherings such as in our and our Concepts’ franchisees’ restaurants. For example, the outbreak of a widespread future health epidemic or pandemic, particularly if located in regions where we have significant operations, could adversely affect our business and/or growth prospects. In addition, our operations could be disrupted if any employees at our, our Concepts’ franchisees’ restaurants or our business partner employees had or were suspected of having the avian flu or swine flu, or other highly communicable illnesses such as hepatitis A or norovirus, since this could require us, our Concepts’ franchisees, or our business partners to quarantine some or all of such employees and close facilities, including restaurants. Prior outbreaks of avian flu have resulted in confirmed human cases and it is possible that outbreaks could reach pandemic levels. Public concern over avian flu may cause fear about the consumption of chicken, eggs and other products derived from poultry, which could cause customers to consume less poultry and related products, which would adversely affect us given that poultry is widely offered at our Concepts’ restaurants. Avian flu outbreaks could also adversely affect the price and availability of poultry, which could negatively impact our business. Furthermore, other viruses may be transmitted through human contact, and the risk or perceived risk of contracting viruses could cause employees or guests to avoid gathering in public, which could adversely affect restaurant guest traffic or the ability to adequately staff restaurants. We could also be adversely affected if government authorities impose mandatory or voluntary 9 closures, impose restrictions on operations of restaurants, or restrict the import or export of products, or if suppliers issue mass recalls of products. Risks Related to our Business Strategy and Reliance upon Franchisees Our operating results and growth strategies are closely tied to the success of our Concepts’ franchisees. The vast majority (98%) of our restaurants are operated by our Concepts’ franchisees. Our long-term growth depends on maintaining the pace of our new unit growth rate through our Concepts’ franchisees. We also rely on master franchisees, who have rights to license to sub-franchisees the right to develop and operate restaurants, to achieve our expectations for new unit development. If our Concepts’ franchisees and master franchisees do not meet our expectations for new unit development, we may not achieve our desired growth. We have limited control over how our Concepts’ franchisees’ businesses are run, and their inability to operate successfully could adversely affect our operating results through decreased royalties, advertising funds contributions, and fees paid to us for other discrete services we may provide to our Concepts’ franchisees ( e.g. fees for the management of e-commerce platforms). Our control is further limited where we utilize master franchise arrangements, which require us to rely on our master franchisees to enforce sub-franchisee compliance with our operating standards. If our Concepts’ franchisees fail to adequately capitalize their businesses or incur too much debt, if their operating expenses or commodity prices increase or if economic or sales trends deteriorate such that they are unable to operate profitably or repay existing debt, it could result in their financial distress, including insolvency or bankruptcy, or the inability to meet development targets or obligations. If a significant franchisee of our Concepts becomes, or a significant number of our Concepts’ franchisees in the aggregate become, financially distressed our operating results could be impacted through reduced or delayed fee payments that cause us to record bad debt expense and reduced advertising fund contributions, and experience reduced new unit development. In addition, we are secondarily liable on certain Concepts’ franchisees’ restaurant lease agreements, including lease agreements that we have guaranteed or assigned to franchisees, and our operating results and/or growth prospects could be impacted by any rent obligations to the extent such franchisees default on these lease agreements. Our results may also be impacted by whether our Concepts’ franchisees implement marketing programs or other major initiatives, such as restaurant remodels or equipment or technology upgrades, which may require financial investment by such franchisees. Our Concepts may be unable to successfully implement strategies that we believe are necessary for growth if our Concepts’ franchisees do not participate, which may harm our growth prospects and financial results. Additionally, the failure of our Concepts’ franchisees to focus on key elements of restaurant operations, such as compliance with our operating standards addressing quality, service and cleanliness (even if such failures do not breach the franchise documents), may be attributed by guests to our Concepts’ brand and could negatively impact our reputation, business and/or our growth prospects. Moreover, franchisee noncompliance with our franchise agreements may reduce the overall customer perception and goodwill of our Concepts’ brands, including by failing to meet health and safety standards, to engage in quality control or maintain product consistency or to comply with cybersecurity requirements, as well as through the participation in improper business practices. We have franchise relationships that are particularly important to our business due to their scale and/or growth prospects such as our relationship with Yum China. Any failure to realize the expected benefits of such franchise relationships, including with Yum China, may adversely impact our business, growth prospects and operating results. In connection with the spin-off of our China business in 2016 into an independent publicly-traded company (the “Separation” or “Yum China spin-off”), we entered into a Master License Agreement (“MLA”) pursuant to which Yum China is the exclusive licensee of the KFC, Taco Bell and Pizza Hut Concepts and their related marks and other intellectual property rights for restaurant services in mainland China. Following the Separation, Yum China became, and continues to be, our largest franchisee. We may not achieve our target restaurant development goal and new restaurants may not be profitable. Our growth strategy depends on our and our Concepts’ franchisees’ ability to increase the number of restaurants around the world. The successful development of new units depends in large part on the ability of our Concepts’ franchisees to open new restaurants and to operate these restaurants profitably. Effectively managing growth can be challenging, particularly as we expand into new markets, and we cannot guarantee that we, or our Concepts’ franchisees, including Yum China, will be able to achieve our expansion goals or that new restaurants will be operated profitably, consistent with results of existing restaurants or with our or our Concepts’ franchisees’ expectations. Other risks that could impact our ability to open new restaurants include: (i) economic conditions and trade or economic policies or sanctions, (ii) our ability to attract new franchisees, (iii) new restaurant construction and development costs, (iv) our Concepts’ franchisees’ ability to meet new restaurant permitting, 10 construction, development and team member training timelines, and (v) supply chain challenges, including our ability to secure sufficient supply to support new restaurants. Expansion could also be affected by our Concepts’ franchisees’ willingness to invest capital or ability to obtain financing to construct and open new restaurants. If it becomes more difficult or more expensive for our Concepts’ franchisees to obtain financing to develop new restaurants, or if the perceived return on invested capital is not sufficiently attractive, the expected growth of our system could slow and our future financial results could be adversely impacted. In addition, new restaurants could impact the sales of our Concepts’ existing restaurants nearby, and the risks of such sales cannibalization may become more significant in the future as we increase our presence in existing markets. We may not realize the anticipated benefits from past or potential future acquisitions, investments or other strategic transactions, or our portfolio business model. From time to time we have completed, and we may evaluate and continue to complete, mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, strategic partnerships, minority investments (including minority investments in third parties, such as, franchisees or master franchisees) and other strategic transactions. Past and potential future strategic transactions may involve various inherent risks, including, without limitation: • expenses, delays or difficulties in integrating acquired companies, joint ventures, strategic partnerships or investments into our organization, including the failure to realize expected synergies and/or the inability to retain key personnel; • diversion of management’s attention from other initiatives and/or day-to-day operations to effectively execute our growth strategy; • inability to generate sufficient revenue, profit, and cash flow from acquired companies, joint ventures, strategic partnerships or investments; • the possibility that we have acquired substantial contingent or unanticipated liabilities in connection with acquisitions or other strategic transactions; and • the possibility that our interests and strategic direction do not align with those of acquired companies or other parties that maintain an interest in our investments. Past and potential future strategic transactions may not ultimately create value for us and may harm our reputation and adversely affect our business, growth prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we account for certain investments, including minority investments in certain franchisees such as Devyani International Limited, on a mark-to-market basis and, as a result, changes in the fair value of these investments impact our reported results. Changes in market prices for equity securities are unpredictable, and our investments have caused, and could continue to cause, fluctuations in our results of operations and/or growth prospects. Risks Related to Operating a Global Business We have exposure to the Chinese market through our largest franchisee, Yum China, which subjects us to risks that could negatively affect our business and/or our growth prospects. A meaningful portion of our total business, particularly with respect to our KFC Concept, is conducted in mainland China through our largest franchisee, Yum China. We are contractually entitled to receive a 3% sales-based license fee on all Yum China system sales related to our KFC, Taco Bell and Pizza Hut Concepts. Yum China’s business is exposed to risks in mainland China, which include, among others, potential political, financial and social instability, changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and ongoing wage and commodity inflation), consumer preferences, the regulatory environment (including uncertainties with respect to the interpretation and enforcement of Chinese laws, rules and regulations), heightened data and cybersecurity risks associated with the conduct of business in China, and food safety related matters (including compliance with food safety regulations and ability to ensure product quality and safety). Any significant or prolonged deterioration in U.S.–China relations, including as the result of current U.S.–China tensions, could adversely affect our Concepts in mainland China. Additionally, Chinese law regulates Yum China’s business conducted in mainland China, and as such our license fee from the Yum China business is subject to numerous uncertainties based on Chinese laws, regulations and policies, which may change from time to time. If Yum China’s business is harmed or development of our Concepts’ restaurants is slowed in mainland China due to any of these factors, it could negatively impact the license fee paid by Yum China to us, which would negatively impact our financial results. 11 Our relationship with Yum China is governed primarily by a MLA, as amended from time to time, which may be terminated upon the occurrence of certain events, such as the insolvency or bankruptcy of Yum China. In addition, if we are unable to enforce our intellectual property or contract rights in mainland China, if Yum China is unable or unwilling to satisfy its obligations under the MLA, or if the MLA is otherwise terminated, it could result in an interruption in the operation of our brands that have been exclusively licensed to Yum China for use in mainland China. Disputes over the proper interpretation of the MLA have arisen in the past and may arise from time to time in the future. Such interruption or disputes could cause a delay in, or loss of, the license fee paid to us, which would negatively impact our financial results. Our global operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business. A significant portion of our Concepts’ restaurants are operated outside of the U.S., and we intend to continue expansion of our global operations. As a result, our and our Concepts’ franchisees’ business and/or growth prospects are increasingly exposed to risks inherent in global operations. These risks, which can vary substantially by country, include political, financial or social instability or conditions, corruption, increasing anti-American sentiment and perception of our Concepts as American brands, social and ethnic unrest, natural disasters, military conflicts and terrorism, as well as exposure to the macroeconomic environment in such markets, the regulatory environment (including the risks of operating in markets in which there are uncertainties regarding the interpretation and enforceability of legal requirements and the enforceability of contract rights and intellectual property rights), and income and non-income based tax rates and laws. Additional risks include the impact of import restrictions or controls, sanctions, foreign exchange control regimes (including restrictions on currency conversion), health guidelines and safety protocols, labor costs and conditions, compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and other similar applicable laws prohibiting bribery of government officials and other corrupt practices, and the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in countries where our Concepts’ restaurants are operated. For example, we have been subject to a regulatory enforcement action in India alleging violation of foreign exchange laws for failure to satisfy conditions of certain operating approvals, such as minimum investment and store build requirements as well as limitations on the remittance of fees outside of the country (see Note 20). As a result of our global operations, we also have increased exposure to geopolitical events and instability. We have been adversely affected, and may continue to be adversely affected, by ongoing geopolitical instability arising from current events such as the military conflict between Russian and Ukraine, and the conflict in the Middle East. Such conflicts may affect our business and operations as result of, among other things, the economic consequences and disruptions from such conflicts, increased energy and supply prices, consumer boycotts of Western brands, consumer reaction to perceived acts or failures to act by us or our Concepts including maintaining operations in countries or regions that are linked to such conflicts, and economic sanctions restricting cross-border commerce. These risks may be further heightened if either conflict expands in scope, or other conflicts arise in other areas of the globe. As a result of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, we no longer have any corporate presence in Russia following our disposal of our Pizza Hut and KFC businesses in Russia during the second quarters of 2022 and of 2023, respectively. In addition, we and our Concepts’ franchisees do business in jurisdictions that may be subject to trade or economic sanction regimes, which sanctions could be expanded. Any failure to comply with such sanctions or other similar legal requirements could result in the imposition of damages or penalties, the suspension of business licenses, or a cessation of operations at our Concepts’ restaurants, as well as damage to our and our Concepts’ brand images and reputations. Foreign currency risks and foreign exchange controls could adversely affect our financial results. Our results of operations, growth prospects and the value of our assets are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which have had, and may continue to have adverse effects on our reported earnings. More specifically, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar, relative to other currencies, such as the Chinese Renminbi (“RMB”), Australian Dollar, the British Pound and the Euro, as well as currencies in certain other markets have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on our reported earnings. Any significant fluctuation in the value of currencies of countries in which we or our Concepts’ franchisees operate, and in particular RMB in China, could materially impact the U.S. dollar value of royalty payments made to us, which could result in lower revenues. In addition, fluctuations in the value of currencies in which we or our Concepts’ franchisees operate could lead to increased costs and lower profitability to us or our Concepts’ franchisees and/or cause us or our Concepts’ franchisees to increase prices to customers, which could negatively impact sales in these markets and harm our financial results. In addition, the governments in certain countries where our Concepts operate, including China and certain others, restrict the conversion of local currency into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of the country. Currency control restrictions on the conversion of other currencies to U.S. dollars or restrictions imposed by countries on cash remittances could cause royalty payments to us to be delayed, remitted only partially or not remitted at all, which could cause us to incur bad debt expense and impact our liquidity. 12 Risks Related to Technology, Data Privacy and Intellectual Property Any cybersecurity incident, including the failure to protect the integrity or availability of IT systems or the security of Confidential Information, or the introduction of malware or ransomware, could materially affect our business, financial results and/or our growth prospects and result in substantial costs, litigation, reputational harm and a loss of consumer confidence. Our business relies heavily on computer systems, hardware, software, technology infrastructure and online websites, platforms and networks (collectively, “IT Systems”) to support both internal and external, including franchisee-related, operations. We own and manage some of these IT Systems but also rely on third parties for a range of IT Systems and related products and services. In addition, we and other parties (such as vendors and franchisees), collect, transmit and/or maintain certain personal, financial and other information about our customers, employees, vendors and franchisees, as well as proprietary information pertaining to our business (collectively, “Confidential Information”). The security and availability of our IT Systems and Confidential Information is critical to our business and regulated by evolving and increasingly demanding laws and regulations in various jurisdictions, certain third-party contracts and industry standards. The current cyber threat environment presents increased risk for all companies, including companies in our industry. The cybersecurity risks we face include cyber-attacks involving ransomware and malicious software, phishing, and other attempts by third parties and others to access, acquire, use, disclose, misappropriate or manipulate our information, systems, databases, processes and people. We are regularly the target of cyber-attacks and other attempts to breach, or gain unauthorized access to, our systems and databases. Moreover, given the current cyber threat environment, we expect the volume and intensity of cyber-attacks and attempted intrusions to continue to increase. Further, the information systems of third parties upon which we rely in connection with our business, such as vendors, suppliers, franchisees and third-party delivery providers, could be compromised in a manner that adversely affects us and our information systems and business continuity and could result in indemnification claims or other disputes with such third parties. Despite our security measures, we have experienced security incidents from time to time and we may continue to experience such attacks and incidents in the future. In particular, on January 18, 2023, we announced a ransomware attack that impacted certain IT Systems which resulted in the closure of fewer than 300 restaurants in one market for one day, temporarily disrupted certain of our affected systems and resulted in data being taken from our network. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, certain expenses related to this attack, including expenses to respond to, remediate and investigate this matter. We remain subject to risks and uncertainties as a result of the incident, including as a result of the data that was taken from the Company’s network. There is no assurance that the security measures we take to reduce the risk of such incidents and protect our systems will be sufficient. There can be no assurance that our cybersecurity risk management program and processes, including our policies, controls or procedures, will be fully implemented, complied with or effective in protecting our systems and information. Additionally, the cybersecurity risks we face are exacerbated by an increase in the use of and reliance on our digital commerce platforms. Moreover, advanced new attacks against information systems and devices by potential malicious attackers, including nation-state actors, state-sanctioned groups, advanced persistent threats, and known and unknown ransomware groups, increase the risk of cybersecurity incidents, including ransomware, malware and phishing attacks. The rapid evolution and increased adoption of artificial intelligence technologies may also heighten our cybersecurity risks by making cyber-attacks more difficult to detect, contain, and mitigate. Other adversarial cyber actions that may occur, such as credential stuffing or distributed denial-of-service attacks, may affect consumer confidence, our ability to provide digital commerce platforms, or lead to regulatory actions or litigation. Furthermore, the significant increase in remote working and personal device use, increases the risks of cyber incidents and the improper dissemination of personal or Confidential Information. If our IT Systems or the information systems of any of our franchisees are disrupted or compromised, or the information systems of businesses with which we interact, such as suppliers or distributors or third-party delivery providers, are disrupted or compromised, in a manner which impacts us or our IT Systems, as a result of a cyber-attack, data or security breach, or other security incident, or if our employees, franchisees or vendors fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations or fail to meet contractual and industry standards in connection therewith, any such developments could result in liabilities and penalties, have an adverse impact on our financial results and growth prospects, damage our brands and reputation, cause interruption of normal business operations, cause us to incur substantial costs, result in a loss of consumer confidence and sales and disrupt our supply chain, business and plans. Additionally, such events could result in the loss, misappropriation, corruption or unauthorized access, acquisition, use or disclosure of data or inability to access data, the release of Confidential Information about our operations and subject us to litigation and government enforcement actions. Moreover, any significant cybersecurity event could require us to devote significant management time and resources to address such events, interfere with the pursuit of other important business strategies and initiatives, and cause us to incur additional expenditures, which could be material, including to investigate such events, remedy cybersecurity problems, recover lost data, prevent future compromises and adapt systems and practices in response to such events. There is no assurance that any remedial actions will meaningfully limit the success of future attempts to breach our IT Systems, particularly because malicious actors are increasingly sophisticated and 13 utilize tools and techniques specifically designed to circumvent security measures, avoid detection and obfuscate forensic evidence, which means we may be unable to identify, investigate or remediate effectively or in a timely manner.  Additionally, while we maintain insurance coverage designed to address certain aspects of cybersecurity risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise. Further, our franchisees may not have insurance coverage (or may have insufficient insurance coverage) designed to cover business interruption losses and/or all types of claims that may arise from cybersecurity risks. Further, the standards and the technology currently used for transmission and approval of electronic payment transactions can put such data at risk, and are determined and controlled by the payment card industry, not by us. If we or our Concepts’ franchisees fail to adequately control fraudulent credit card and debit card transactions or to comply with the global Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, we or our Concepts’ franchisees may face civil liability, diminished public perception of our security measures, fines and assessments from the card brands, and significantly higher credit card and debit card related costs, any of which could adversely affect us. The failure to maintain satisfactory compliance with data privacy and data protection legal requirements may adversely affect our business and/or growth prospects and subject us to penalties. Data privacy is subject to frequently changing legal requirements, which sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions where we and our Concepts’ franchisees do business. For example, we are subject to numerous global laws, including but not limited to, the European Union’s (“E.U.”) General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) and the UK General Data Protection Regulations, which impose strict data protection requirements and provide for significant penalties for noncompliance. In addition, within the U.S., various states, including California, have passed laws that require companies that process information with respect to consumers to, among other things, provide new disclosures and options to consumers about data collection, use and sharing practices. Some of these laws are already in effect, while others are proposed and will go into effect in the coming years. Moreover, the U.S. federal government and a significant number of additional states are considering expanding or passing privacy laws in the near term. These and other newly enacted and evolving legal requirements, such as the E.U.’s Directive 2011/16/EU on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation (referred to as “DAC7”), have required, and may continue to require, us and our Concepts’ franchisees to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses to comply. Moreover, some of these laws, such as the GDPR and the California Consumer Privacy Act, confer a private right-of-action to certain individuals and associations. Additionally, state regulatory bodies and other governmental authorities tasked with enforcing new privacy laws are engaging in enforcement investigations and actions. Future enforcement priorities from these bodies may be unclear or changing. Failure to comply with these and any other comprehensive privacy laws passed at the international, federal or state level may result in regulatory enforcement action, the imposition of monetary penalties, and damage our reputation. The Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) and many state attorneys general are also interpreting federal and state consumer protection laws to impose standards for the collection, use, dissemination and security of data. The FTC has also been pursuing privacy as a dedicated enforcement priority, with specialized attorneys seeking enforcement action for violation of US privacy laws including unfair or deceptive practices relating to privacy policies, consumer data collection and processing consent, and digital advertising practices. Various other jurisdictions where our Concepts have operations, have significantly strengthened, and may continue to strengthen, their data privacy requirements. Moreover, new and changing cross-border data transfer requirements, including the implementation of Standard Contractual Clauses published by the European Commission in June 2021 and the UK International Data Transfer Agreement finalized by the UK in March 2022, will require us to incur costs to comply and may impact the transfer of personal data throughout our organization and to third parties. Additionally, we are subject to increasing legal requirements with respect to the use of artificial intelligence and machine learning applications and tools (including in relation to hiring and employment practices and in digitally marketing our Concepts), data collected from minors, and biometric information. These legal requirements are rapidly changing and are not consistent across jurisdictions, and our inability to adapt to or comply with such legal requirements may adversely impact us, including as the result of liabilities or penalties as the result of any such non-compliance. The increasingly complex, restrictive and evolving regulatory environment at the international, federal and state level related to data privacy and data protection may require significant continued effort and cost, changes to our business practices and impact our ability to obtain and use data to provide personalized experiences for our customers. In addition, failure to comply with applicable requirements may subject us and our Concepts’ franchisees to fines, sanctions, governmental investigation, lawsuits and other potential liability, as well as reputational harm. 14 Unreliable or inefficient restaurant technology or the failure to successfully implement technology initiatives in the future could adversely impact operating results, growth prospects and the overall consumer experience. We and our Concepts’ franchisees rely heavily on IT Systems to efficiently operate our restaurants and drive the customer experience, sales growth and margin improvement. Our growth may be impacted by our initiatives to implement proprietary technology, as well as third-party technology solutions (including point-of-sale processing in our restaurants, management of our supply chain, and various other processes and procedures) and gather and leverage data to enhance restaurant operations and improve the customer experience. These IT Systems are subject to damage, interruption or failure due to theft, fire, power outages, telecommunications failure, computer viruses, employee misuse, security breaches, malicious cyber-attacks including the introduction of malware or ransomware or other disruptive behavior by hackers, or other catastrophic events. If our or our Concepts’ franchisees’ IT Systems are damaged or fail to function properly, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and may experience loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to manage inventories or process transactions, which could result in lost sales, customer or employee dissatisfaction, or negative publicity that could adversely impact our reputation, growth prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, our failure to adequately invest in new technology or adapt to technological advancements and industry trends, particularly with respect to digital commerce capabilities, could result in a loss of customers and related market share. If our Concepts’ digital commerce platforms do not meet customers’ expectations in terms of security, speed, privacy, attractiveness or ease of use, customers may be less inclined to return to such digital commerce platforms, which could negatively impact us and our Concepts’ franchisees. Developing and implementing consumers’ evolving technology demands may place a significant financial burden on us and our Concepts’ franchisees, and our Concepts’ franchisees may have differing views on investment priorities. Our strategic digital and technology initiatives may not be timely implemented or may not achieve the desired results. Failure to adequately manage implementations, updates or enhancements of new technology or interfaces between platforms could place us at a competitive disadvantage, and disrupt and otherwise adversely impact our operations and/or growth prospects. It may be difficult to recruit and retain qualified individuals for these efforts due to intense competition for qualified technology systems’ developers necessary to innovate, develop and implement new technologies for our growth initiatives, including increasing our digital relationship with customers. Even if we effectively implement and manage these technology initiatives, there is no guarantee that this will result in sales growth or margin improvement. Certain IT Systems which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties may also be unreliable or inefficient, and technology vendors may limit or terminate product support and maintenance, which could impact the reliability of critical systems’ operations. However, if there are issues with the proprietary technology, we may be subject to liability or financial penalties to our Concepts’ franchisees. We cannot predict the impact that alternative methods of delivery, including autonomous vehicle delivery and third-party delivery technology solutions, or changes in consumer behavior facilitated by these alternative methods of delivery, will have on our business. Advances in alternative methods of delivery, including advances in digital ordering technology, or certain changes in consumer behavior driven by these or other technologies and methods of delivery, could have a negative effect on our business, growth prospects and market position. Moreover, technology and consumer offerings continue to develop and evolve and we cannot predict consumer or team member acceptance of these existing and new technologies (e.g. automation, artificial intelligence, new delivery channels) or their impact on our business, and/or our growth prospects, nor can we be certain of our ability to implement or execute such technologies, which could result in loss of sales; dissatisfaction from our customers, employees, or employees of our Concepts’ franchisees; or negative publicity that could adversely impact our reputation or financial results. There are risks associated with our increasing dependence on digital commerce platforms to maintain and grow sales. Customers are increasingly using our internally-owned e-commerce websites and apps, such as kfc.com, tacobell.com, pizzahut.com, habitburger.com, and the KFC, Taco Bell, Pizza Hut and The Habit Burger Grill apps in the U.S., as well as apps owned by third-party delivery aggregators and third-party developers and payment processors, to order and pay for our Concepts’ products. Moreover, there has been a rapid increase in the use of owned and/or third-party delivery services by our Concepts. As a result, our Concepts and our Concepts’ franchisees are increasingly reliant on digital ordering and payment as a sales channel and our business and/or growth prospects could be negatively impacted if we are unable to successfully implement, execute or maintain our consumer-facing digital initiatives, such as delivery, curbside pick-up and mobile carryout. If the third-party aggregators that we utilize for delivery, including marketplace and delivery as a service, cease or curtail their operations, fail to maintain sufficient labor force to satisfy demand, provide poor customer service, materially change fees, access or visibility to our products, or give greater priority or promotions to our competitors, our reputation, business and/or growth prospects may be negatively impacted. In addition, third-party delivery services typically charge restaurants a per order fee, and as such utilizing third-party delivery services may not be as profitable as sales directly to our customers, and may also 15 introduce food quality and customer satisfaction risks outside of our control. These digital ordering and payment platforms also could be damaged or interrupted by power loss, technological failures, user errors, cyber-attacks, other forms of sabotage, inclement weather or natural disasters and have experienced interruptions and could experience further interruptions, which could limit or delay customers’ ability to order through such platforms or make customers less inclined to return to such platforms. The rapid acceleration in growth of digital sales has placed additional stress on those platforms that are more reliant upon legacy technology, such as certain platforms used by Pizza Hut, which may result in more frequent and potentially more severe interruptions. Moreover, our reliance on multiple digital commerce platforms to support our global footprint, multiple Concepts and highly franchised business model could increase our vulnerability to cyber-attacks and/or security breaches and could necessitate additional expenditures as we endeavor to consolidate and standardize such platforms. Yum China, our largest franchisee, utilizes third-party mobile payment apps such as Alipay, WeChat Pay and Union Pay as a means through which to generate sales and process payments. Should customers become unable to access mobile payment apps in China, should the relationship between Yum China and one or more third-party mobile payment processors become interrupted, or should Yum China’s ability to use Alipay, WeChat Pay, Union Pay or other third-party mobile payment apps in its operations be restricted, its business could be adversely affected, which could have a negative impact on the license fee paid to us. Our inability or failure to recognize, respond to and effectively manage the increased impact of social media could adversely impact our business and/or growth prospects. There has been a marked increase in the use of social media platforms, including blogs, chat platforms, social media websites, and other forms of Internet-based communications which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. The rising popularity of social media and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination and given users the ability to more effectively organize collective actions such as boycotts and other brand-damaging behaviors. Many social media platforms immediately publish content, often without filters or checks on accuracy. Information posted on such platforms may be adverse to our interests and/or may be inaccurate. The dissemination of information online could harm our reputation, business and/or growth prospects, regardless of the information’s accuracy. The damage may be immediate without an opportunity for redress or correction. In addition, social media is frequently used by our Concepts or Concepts’ franchisees to communicate with customers and the public. Failure by our Concepts or Concepts’ franchisees to use social media effectively or appropriately, particularly as compared to our Concepts’ competitors, could lead to a decline in brand reputation, brand value, customer visits and revenue. Social media is also increasingly used to compel companies to express public positions on issues and topics not directly related to their core business, which could prove controversial or divisive to consumers and result in lost sales or a misallocation of resources. In addition, laws and regulations, including FTC enforcement, are rapidly evolving to govern social media platforms and communications. A failure of us, our employees, our Concepts’ franchisees or third parties acting at our direction or on our behalf, or others perceived to be associated with us or our Concepts’ franchisees, to abide by applicable laws and regulations regarding the use of social media, or to appropriately use social media, could adversely impact our Concepts’ brands, our reputation, our business and our growth prospects, result in negative publicity, or subject us or our Concepts’ franchisees to fines, other penalties or litigation. Other risks associated with the use of social media include improper disclosure of proprietary information, negative comments about our Concepts’ brands, exposure of personally identifiable information, fraud, hoaxes or malicious dissemination of false information. Failure to protect our trademarks or other intellectual property could harm our Concepts’ brands and overall business and/or growth prospects. We regard our registered trademarks (e.g., Yum®, KFC®, Taco Bell®, Pizza Hut® and The Habit®), unregistered trademarks, copyrightable works, inventions, and trade secrets related to our restaurant businesses as having significant value and being important to our marketing efforts. Our trademarks, many of which are registered in various jurisdictions, create brand awareness and help build goodwill among our customers. We rely on a combination of legal protections provided by trademark registrations, contracts, copyrights, patents and common law rights, such as unfair competition, passing off and trade secret laws to protect our intellectual property from potential infringement. However, from time to time, we become aware of other persons or companies using names and marks that are identical or confusingly similar to our brands’ names and marks, or using other proprietary intellectual property we own. Although our policy is to challenge infringements and other unauthorized uses of our intellectual property, certain or unknown unauthorized uses or other misappropriation of our trademarks and other intellectual property could diminish the value of our Concepts’ brands and adversely affect our business, growth prospects and goodwill. 16 In addition, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our Concepts have, or may in the future open or franchise, a restaurant and the laws of some countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. There can be no assurance that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property or the legal protections that may be available will be adequate or that our Concepts’ franchisees will maintain the quality of the goods and services offered under our brands’ trademarks or always act in accordance with guidelines we set for maintaining our brands’ intellectual property rights and defending or enforcing our trademarks and other intellectual property could result in significant expenditures. Our brands may also be targets of infringement claims that could interfere with the use of certain names, trademarks, works of authorship and/or the proprietary know-how, inventions, recipes, or trade secrets used in our business. Defending against such claims can be costly, and as a result of defending such claims, we may be prohibited from using such intellectual property or proprietary information in the future or forced to pay damages, royalties, or other fees for using such proprietary information, any of which could negatively affect our business, growth prospects, reputation and financial results. Risks Related to Our Supply Chain and Employment Shortages or interruptions in the availability and delivery of food, equipment and other supplies may increase costs or reduce revenues. The products sold or used by our Concepts and their franchisees are sourced from a wide variety of suppliers although certain products and equipment have limited suppliers, which increases our reliance on those suppliers. We, along with our Concepts’ franchisees, are also dependent upon third parties to make frequent deliveries of food products, equipment and supplies that meet our specifications at competitive prices. Shortages or interruptions in the supply or distribution of food items, equipment and other supplies to our Concepts’ restaurants have happened from time to time and could reduce sales, harm our Concepts’ reputations and delay the planned openings of new restaurants by us and our Concepts’ franchisees. We have experienced and may continue to experience certain supply chain disruptions resulting from the current macroeconomic environment, which have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our business, growth prospects and results of operations. Future shortages or disruptions could also be caused by factors such as natural disasters, health epidemics and pandemics, social unrest, the impacts of climate change, inaccurate forecasting of customer demand, problems in production or distribution, restrictions on imports or exports including due to trade disputes or restrictions, the inability of vendors to obtain credit, political instability in the countries in which the suppliers and distributors are located, the financial instability of suppliers and distributors, suppliers’ or distributors’ failure to meet our standards or requirements, transitioning to new suppliers or distributors, product quality issues or recalls, inflation, food safety warnings or advisories, the cancellation of supply or distribution agreements or an inability to renew such arrangements or to find replacements on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, in the U.S., the Company and the Company’s KFC, Taco Bell and Pizza Hut franchisee groups are members of Restaurant Supply Chain Solutions, LLC (“RSCS”), which is a third party responsible for purchasing certain restaurant products and equipment. The Habit Burger Grill entered into a purchasing agreement with RSCS in 2020. RSCS manages our relationship with McLane Foodservice, Inc. (“McLane”) which serves as the largest distributor for the Company’s KFC, Taco Bell and Pizza Hut Concepts in the U.S. RSCS and McLane both have certain contractual rights to terminate the relevant distribution contract upon a specified notice period. Any failure or inability of our significant suppliers or distributors to meet their respective service requirements or any termination of relevant agreements without a notice period sufficient to enable an appropriate transition, could result in shortages or interruptions in the availability of food and other supplies. The loss of key personnel, labor shortages and increased labor costs could adversely affect our business and/or growth prospects. Much of our future success depends on the continued availability and service of senior management personnel. The loss or failure to engage in adequate succession planning of any of our executive officers or other key senior management personnel could harm our business and/or our growth prospects. In addition, our restaurant operations are highly service-oriented and our success depends in part on our and our Concepts’ franchisees’ ability to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified employees, including franchisee management, restaurant managers and other crew members. Our Concepts and their franchisees have experienced and may continue to experience increased labor shortages and employee turnover at many of our restaurants and increased competition for qualified employees, taking into account ongoing challenging labor market conditions. These labor market conditions and the ongoing inflationary environment in markets where we operate have increased in recent years, and may continue to increase, the labor costs for our Concepts and their franchisees, including due to the payment of higher wages to attract or retain qualified employees (including franchisee management, restaurant managers and other crew members) and due to increased overtime 17 costs to meet demand. Such increases in labor costs have also been driven by, and may continue to be driven by, higher minimum wages at the federal, state or local level, including in connection with the increases in minimum wages that have recently been enacted by various states and any potential increase in the federal minimum wage in the U.S. Moreover, there may be a long-term trend toward higher wages in emerging markets as well as various other markets. For example, California's Assembly Bill No. 1228 (“AB 1228”) raises the minimum wage to $20 an hour beginning April 2024 (with annual increases through 2030) for workers at quick service restaurants in the state that are part of brands that have more than 60 establishments nationwide. AB 1228 also creates an advisory-only council with powers to recommend that state agencies enact additional health, safety and employment standards for quick service restaurants. Because AB 1228 will increase the operating costs for our Concepts’ restaurants in California, it may have an adverse impact on and disrupt the operations of our Concepts’ restaurants located there. The inability to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified individuals at the store level may result in reduced operating hours, have a negative impact on service or customer experience, delay our planned use, development or deployment of technology, impact planned openings of new restaurants, or result in closures of existing restaurants by us and our Concepts’ franchisees, any of which could adversely affect our business. In addition, our Concepts and their franchisees may be subject to increasing union activity in the restaurant space. In the event of a strike, work slowdown or other labor unrest, the ability to adequately staff at the store level could be impaired, which could adversely impact our operations, growth prospects and distract management from focusing on our business and strategic priorities. An increase in food prices and other operating costs may have an adverse impact on our business and/or our growth prospects. Our and our Concepts’ franchisees’ businesses depend on reliable sources of large quantities of raw materials such as proteins (including poultry, pork, beef and seafood), cheese, oil, flour and vegetables (including potatoes and lettuce). Raw materials purchased for use in our Concepts’ restaurants are subject to price volatility caused by any fluctuation in aggregate supply and demand, or other external conditions, such as weather and climate conditions, (which may be exacerbated by climate change), energy costs or natural events or disasters that affect expected harvests of such raw materials, taxes and tariffs (including as a result of trade disputes), industry demand, inflationary conditions, labor shortages, transportation issues, fuel costs, food safety concerns, product recalls, governmental regulation and other factors, all of which are beyond our control and in many instances are unpredictable. Taking into account ongoing inflationary conditions, we have recently experienced and expect to continue to experience, an increase in the price of various raw materials and other operating costs (such as rent and energy costs) as well as increased volatility in such prices and costs, which has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect our results of operations and/or our growth prospects. In addition, a significant increase in gasoline prices could result in the imposition of fuel surcharges by our distributors. We and/or our Concepts’ franchisees have taken, and may continue to take, certain actions as a result of recent inflationary increases in food and other operating costs noted above, including by increasing food prices beyond typical pricing patterns at certain of our Concepts’ restaurants, attempting to negotiate favorable pricing terms with our suppliers and/or shifting to suppliers with more favorable pricing where feasible, and utilizing forward contracts and commodity futures and options contracts where possible to hedge commodity prices. However, because we and our Concepts’ franchisees provide competitively priced food, we have not always been able to pass through to our customers the full amount of our cost increases or otherwise fully mitigate the cost increases experienced by us or our Concepts’ franchisees. If we and our Concepts’ franchisees are unable to manage the cost of raw materials or to increase the prices of products proportionately, our and our Concepts’ franchisees’ profit margins and return on invested capital may be adversely impacted. Moreover, to the extent that we raise menu prices to offset these costs, this could result in decreased consumer demand and adversely affect our business and/or our growth prospects. Risks Related to our Concepts’ Brands and Reputation Our success depends substantially on our corporate reputation and on the value and perception of our brands. Our success depends in large part upon our ability and our Concepts’ franchisees’ ability to maintain and enhance our corporate reputation and the value and perception of our brands, and a key aspect of our growth strategy is based on innovating and elevating the perception of our restaurant brands. Brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions regarding a variety of subjective factors, including the nutritional content and preparation of our food, our ingredients, food safety, our business practices, including with respect to how we source commodities, and our pricing (including price increases and discounting). Consumer acceptance of our offerings is subject to change and some changes can occur rapidly. For example, nutritional, health and other scientific studies and conclusions, which constantly evolve and may have contradictory implications, drive popular opinion, litigation and regulation (including initiatives intended to drive consumer behavior) in ways that may affect perceptions of our Concepts’ brands generally or relative to alternatives. The retail food industry has also been subject to scrutiny and claims that the menus and practices of restaurant chains have led to customer health issues, such as weight gain and other adverse effects. Publicity about these matters (particularly directed at the quick service and fast-casual segments of the retail food industry) may 18 harm our Concepts’ reputations and adversely affect our business and/or our growth prospects. Moreover, this scrutiny could lead to increased regulation of the content or marketing of our products, including legislation or regulation taxing and/or regulating food with high-fat, sugar and salt content, or foods otherwise deemed to be “unhealthy,” which may increase costs of compliance and remediation to us and our Concepts’ franchisees. Additionally, if the demand for offerings at our Concepts’ restaurants and other fast-casual or quick service segments of the retail food industry decreases or shifts as a result of wellness trends or changing dietary preferences, including as a result of developments in or increased adoption of weight loss medications, our business, financial results and/or growth prospects may be adversely impacted. In addition, business or other incidents, whether isolated or recurring, and whether originating from us, our Concepts’ restaurants, franchisees, competitors, governments, suppliers or distributors, can significantly reduce brand value and consumer perception, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation or investigations. For example, the reputation of our Concepts’ brands could be damaged by claims or perceptions about the quality, safety or reputation of our products, suppliers, distributors or franchisees or by claims or perceptions that we, founders of our Concepts, our Concepts’ franchisees or other business partners have acted or are acting in an unethical, illegal, racially-biased or socially irresponsible manner or are not fostering an inclusive and diverse environment, including with respect to the service and treatment of customers at our Concepts’ restaurants, and our or our Concepts’ franchisees’ treatment of employees, regardless of whether real or perceived. Our corporate reputation could also suffer from negative publicity or consumer sentiment regarding Company action or brand imagery, misconduct by any of our or our Concepts’ franchisees’ employees, or a real or perceived failure of corporate governance. Any such developments could adversely impact the perception of, our Concepts’ brands or our products, reduce consumer demand for our products or otherwise adversely impact us. We cannot guarantee that franchisees or other third parties with licenses to use our intellectual property will not take actions that may harm the value of our intellectual property. Franchisee use of our Concepts’ trademarks are governed through franchise agreements and we monitor use of our trademarks by both franchisees and third parties, but franchisees or other third parties use or may refer to or make statements about our Concepts’ brands that do not make proper use of our trademarks or required designations, that improperly alter trademarks or branding, or that are critical of our Concepts’ brands or place our Concepts’ brands in a context that may tarnish their reputation. Moreover, unauthorized third parties, including our Concepts’ current and former franchisees, may use our intellectual property to trade on the goodwill of our Concepts’ brands, resulting in consumer confusion or brand dilution. Our ability to reach consumers and drive results is heavily influenced by brand marketing and advertising and our ability to adapt to evolving consumer preferences, including developing and launching new and innovative products and offerings. Our marketing and advertising programs may not be as successful as intended, or may not be as successful as our competitors, and thus, may adversely affect our reputation, business, our growth prospects and the strength of our brand. In addition, any decisions we may make to collaborate or cease to collaborate with certain endorsers or marketing partners in light of actions taken or statements made by them could seriously harm our brand image with consumers, and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our reputation and financial results. We are subject to increasing and evolving expectations and requirements with respect to social and environmental sustainability matters, which could expose us to numerous risks. There has been an increased focus, including from investors, the public and governmental and nongovernmental authorities, on social and environmental sustainability matters, such as climate change, greenhouse gases, packaging and waste, human rights, diversity, sustainable supply chain practices, animal health and welfare, deforestation, land, energy and water use and other corporate responsibility matters. At the same time, other stakeholders and regulators have increasingly expressed or pursued opposing views, legislation and investment expectation with respect to sustainability initiatives, including so-called anti-environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) legislation or policies. We are and may become subject to changing rules and regulations promulgated by governmental and self-regulatory organizations with respect to social and environmental sustainability matters. These changing rules, regulations and stakeholder expectations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and management focus associated with satisfying such regulations and expectations. As a result of these increased expectations and evolving requirements, as well as our commitment to social and environmental sustainability matters, we may continue to establish or expand goals, commitments or targets, and take actions to meet such goals, commitments and targets. These goals could be difficult and expensive to implement, the technologies needed to implement them may not be cost effective and may not advance at a sufficient pace, and we may be criticized for the accuracy, adequacy or completeness of disclosures. Further, these goals may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls and processes that continue to evolve, assumptions that are subject to change, and other risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. If our data, processes and reporting with respect to social and environmental matters are incomplete or inaccurate, or if we fail to achieve progress with respect to these goals on a timely basis, consumer and investor trust in our brands may suffer. In addition, some third parties (including ESG groups) may object 19 to the scope or nature of our social and environmental program initiatives or goals, or any revisions to these initiatives or goals, which could give rise to negative responses by governmental actors (such as retaliatory legislative actions) or consumers (such as boycotts, lawsuits or negative publicity campaigns) that could adversely affect us or our brand value. We may be adversely affected by climate change. We could be adversely affected by the physical and/or transitional effects of climate change. Our and our franchisees’ properties and operations may be vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change, which is predicted to result in ongoing changes in global weather patterns and more frequent and severe weather-related events such as droughts, wildfires, hurricanes and other natural disasters. Such adverse weather-related impacts may also adversely affect the general economy in countries where we operate, disrupt our operations, cause restaurant closures or delay the opening of new restaurants, adversely impact our supply chain and increase the costs of (and decrease the availability of) food and other supplies needed for our operations. In addition, various legislative and regulatory efforts to combat climate change may increase in the future, which could result in additional taxes, increased compliance costs, and otherwise disrupt and adversely impact us and our franchisees. Risks Related to Government Regulation and Litigation We may be subject to litigation that could adversely affect us by increasing our expenses, diverting management attention or subjecting us to significant monetary damages and other remedies. We are regularly involved in legal proceedings, which include regulatory claims or disputes by claimants such as franchisees, suppliers, employees, customers, governments and others related to operational, foreign exchange, tax, franchise, contractual or employment issues. These claims or disputes may relate to personal injury, employment, real estate, environmental, tort, intellectual property, breach of contract, technology services, data privacy, securities, consumer protection, derivative and other litigation matters. See the discussion of legal proceedings in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Plaintiffs often seek recovery of large or indeterminate amounts, and lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties (some of which are beyond the Company’s control). Unfavorable rulings or developments may also occur in cases we are not involved in. Moreover, regardless of whether any such lawsuits have merit, or whether we are ultimately held liable or settle, such litigation may be expensive to defend, may divert resources and management attention away from our operations, and may negatively impact our financial results. With respect to insured claims, a judgment for damages in excess of any insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations and/or growth prospects. Any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also adversely affect our Concepts’ reputations, which could adversely affect our financial results. Changes in, or noncompliance with, legal requirements may adversely affect our business operations, growth prospects or financial condition. The Company, and our Concepts and their franchisees, are subject to numerous laws and regulations around the world. These laws and regulations change regularly and are increasingly complex. For example, we are subject to: • The Americans with Disabilities Act in the U.S. and similar laws that provide protection to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas. • The U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act as well as a variety of similar laws, which govern matters such as minimum wages, and overtime, and the U.S. Family and Medical Leave Act as well as a variety of similar laws which provide protected leave rights to employees. • Employment laws related to workplace health and safety, non-discrimination, non-harassment, whistleblower protections, and other terms and conditions of employment. • Laws and regulations in government-mandated health care benefits such as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act in the U.S. • Laws and regulations relating to nutritional content, nutritional labeling, product safety, product marketing and menu labeling. • Laws relating to state and local licensing. • Laws relating to the relationship between franchisors and franchisees. • Laws and regulations relating to health, sanitation, food, workplace safety, child labor, including laws regulating the use of certain “hazardous equipment”, building and zoning, and fire safety and prevention. • Laws and regulations relating to union organizing rights and activities. • Laws relating to information security, privacy, cashless payments, and consumer protection. • Laws relating to our use of third party aggregators. • Laws relating to currency conversion or exchange. 20 • Laws relating to international trade and sanctions. • Anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. • Environmental laws and regulations, including with respect to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. • Federal and state immigration laws and regulations in the U.S. We may also be adversely impacted by legal developments resulting in broader standards for determining when two or more entities may be found to be joint employers of the same employees under laws such as the National Labor Relations Act (the “NLRA”). In this regard, the National Labor Relations Board issued a rule with an anticipated effective date in February 2024 addressing the joint-employer test under the NLRA. This rule provides for more expansive standards in relation to determining joint employer status by giving consideration as to whether one entity has authority to control essential terms and conditions of employment of another entity, whether or not such control is exercised and whether or not any such exercise of control is direct or indirect. To the extent that the joint employer standards reflected in this rule are determined to be applicable to franchise relationships, we or our Concepts could be liable or held responsible for unfair labor practices and other violations and could be required to engage in collective bargaining with representatives of the employees of our Concepts’ franchisees. In addition to the foregoing, many states (including California) have enacted or are considering legislation regarding, or otherwise increased their focus on, the misclassification of independent contractors, which could have an adverse impact on and disrupt the operations of our Concepts' restaurants in other ways, such as costs relating to delivery aggregators or certain staff augmentation models. Any failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or related standards or guidelines could adversely affect our reputation, global expansion efforts, growth prospects and financial results or result in, among other things, litigation, revocation of required licenses, internal investigations, governmental investigations or proceedings, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. Publicity relating to any such noncompliance or perception that we are not paying a sufficient amount of taxes could also harm our Concepts’ reputations and adversely affect our revenues. In addition, the compliance costs associated with complying with new or existing legal requirements could be substantial. Tax matters, including changes in tax rates or laws, disagreements with taxing authorities, imposition of new taxes and our restructurings could impact our results of operations, growth prospects and financial condition. We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property, withholding and franchise taxes in various jurisdictions. Our accruals for tax liabilities are based on past experience, interpretations of applicable law, and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities. Such tax positions require significant judgment which may be incorrect or challenged by tax authorities and may result in payments greater than the amounts accrued. If the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) or another taxing authority disagrees with our tax positions, we could face additional tax liabilities, including interest and penalties, which could be material. For example, as disclosed in Note 20, as a result of an audit by the IRS for fiscal years 2013 through 2015, in August 2022, we received a Revenue Agent’s Report that includes a proposed adjustment for the 2014 fiscal year relating to a series of reorganizations we undertook during that year in connection with the business realignment of our corporate and management reporting structure along brand lines. While we disagree with the position of the IRS and intend to contest it vigorously, an unfavorable resolution of this matter could have a material, adverse impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements in future periods. In addition, if jurisdictions in which we or our Concepts operate enact tax legislation, modify tax treaties and/or increase audit scrutiny, it could increase our taxes and have an adverse impact on our results of operations, growth prospects and financial position. For example, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (the “OECD”), the E.U. and other countries (including countries in which we operate) have committed to enacting substantial changes to numerous long-standing tax principles impacting how large multinational enterprises are taxed in an effort to limit perceived base erosion and profit shifting incentives. In particular, the OECD’s Pillar Two initiative provides for a 15% global minimum tax applied on a country-by-country basis, with a recommended effective date for most provisions of January 1, 2024. These proposals have been or are expected to be implemented in many jurisdictions in which we operate, and we anticipate an increase in the burdens related to the tax compliance and reporting costs as a result of the new rules. Risks Related to the Yum China Spin-Off The Yum China spin-off and certain related transactions could result in substantial U.S. tax liability. We received opinions of outside counsel substantially to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Yum China spin-off and certain related transactions qualified as generally tax-free under Sections 355 and 361 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. The opinions relied on various facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations as to factual matters and undertakings (including with respect to future conduct) made by Yum China and us. If any of these facts, assumptions, 21 representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, we may not be able to rely on these opinions of outside counsel. Accordingly, notwithstanding receipt of the opinions of outside counsel, the conclusions reached in the tax opinions may be challenged by the IRS. Because the opinions are not binding on the IRS or the courts, there can be no assurance that the IRS or the courts will not prevail in any such challenge. If, notwithstanding receipt of any opinion, the IRS were to conclude that the Yum China spin-off was taxable, in general, we would recognize taxable gain as if we had sold the Yum China common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value. In addition, each U.S. holder of our Common Stock who received shares of Yum China common stock in connection with the spin-off transaction would generally be treated as having received a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares of Yum China common stock received. That distribution would be taxable to each such U.S. stockholder as a dividend to the extent of accumulated earnings and profits as of the date of the spin-off. For each such U.S. stockholder, any amount that exceeded our earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of such stockholder’s tax basis in our shares of Common Stock with any remaining amount being taxed as a capital gain. The Yum China spin-off may be subject to China ’ s indirect transfer tax. In February 2015, the Chinese State Tax Administration (“STA”) issued the Bulletin on Several Issues of Enterprise Income Tax on Income Arising from Indirect Transfers of Property by Non-resident Enterprises (“Bulletin 7”). Pursuant to Bulletin 7, an “indirect transfer” of Chinese taxable assets, including equity interests in a China resident enterprise (“Chinese interests”), by a non-resident enterprise, may be recharacterized and treated as a direct transfer of Chinese taxable assets, if such arrangement does not have reasonable commercial purpose and the transferor has avoided payment of Chinese enterprise income tax. Using general anti-tax avoidance provisions, the STA may treat an indirect transfer as a direct transfer of Chinese interests if the transfer has avoided Chinese tax by way of an arrangement without reasonable commercial purpose. As a result, gains derived from such indirect transfer may be subject to Chinese enterprise income tax, and the transferee or other person who is obligated to pay for the transfer would be obligated to withhold the applicable taxes, currently at a rate of up to 10% of the capital gain in the case of an indirect transfer of equity interests in a China resident enterprise. We evaluated the potential applicability of Bulletin 7 in connection with the Separation in the form of a tax free restructuring and continue to believe it is more likely than not that Bulletin 7 does not apply and that the restructuring had reasonable commercial purpose. However, there are significant uncertainties on what constitutes a reasonable commercial purpose, how the safe harbor provisions for group restructurings are to be interpreted and how the Chinese tax authorities will ultimately view the spin-off. As a result, our position could be challenged by the Chinese tax authorities resulting in a tax at a rate of 10% assessed on the difference between the fair market value and the tax basis of Yum China at the date of the spin-off. As our tax basis in Yum China was minimal, the amount of such a tax could be significant and have an adverse effect on our results of operations, growth prospects and our financial condition. Risks Related to Consumer Discretionary Spending and Macroeconomic Conditions Our business and/or our growth prospects may be adversely impacted by changes in consumer discretionary spending and macroeconomic conditions, including inflationary pressures and elevated interest rates, in markets in which we operate. As a company dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, we (and our Concepts’ franchisees) are sensitive to macroeconomic conditions and consumer discretionary spending levels in markets where we and our Concepts’ franchisees operate. Some of the factors that may impact discretionary consumer spending and macroeconomic conditions include unemployment and underemployment rates, fluctuations in disposable income, the price of gasoline, other inflationary pressures, higher taxes, reduced access to credit, elevated interest rate levels, stock market performance and changes in consumer confidence. In this regard, we and our Concepts’ franchisees have been adversely impacted by, and may continue to be adversely impacted by, negative macroeconomic conditions in certain markets where we and our Concepts’ franchisees operate, including impacts from increased commodity prices and other inflationary pressures, elevated interest rates, challenging labor market conditions, ongoing geopolitical instability, supply chain disruption, and increases in real estate costs in certain domestic and international markets. Any significant deterioration in current negative macroeconomic conditions in markets where we operate, or any recovery therefrom that is significantly slower than anticipated, could have an adverse effect on our business, growth prospects, financial conditions, or results of operations. In addition, negative macroeconomic conditions or other adverse business developments may result in future asset impairment charges. Moreover, if negative macroeconomic conditions result in significant disruptions to capital and financial markets, or negatively impact our credit ratings, our cost of borrowing, our ability to access capital on favorable terms and our overall liquidity and capital structure could be adversely impacted. 22 Risks Related to Competition The retail food industry is highly competitive. Our Concepts’ restaurants compete with international, national and regional restaurant chains as well as locally-owned restaurants, and the industry in which we operate is highly competitive with respect to price and quality of food products, new product development, digital engagement, advertising levels and promotional initiatives, customer service reputation, restaurant location and attractiveness and maintenance of properties, management and hourly personnel and qualified franchisees. Moreover, if we are unable to successfully respond to changing consumer or dietary preferences, if our marketing efforts and/or launch of new products are unsuccessful, or if our Concepts’ restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other retail food outlets, our and our Concepts’ franchisees’ businesses and/or our growth prospects could be adversely affected. We also face ongoing competition due to convergence in grocery, convenience, deli and restaurant services, including the offering by the grocery industry of convenient meals, including pizzas and entrees with side dishes. Competition from delivery aggregators and other food delivery services has also increased and is expected to continue to increase, particularly in urbanized areas. Finally, not all of our competitors may seek to establish environmental or sustainability goals comparable to ours, which could result in lower supply chain or operating costs for our competitors. Increased competition and other competitive factors could have an adverse effect on our business or development plans. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our level of indebtedness makes us more sensitive to adverse economic conditions, may limit our ability to plan for or respond to significant changes in our business, and requires a significant amount of cash to service our debt payment obligations that we may be unable to generate or obtain. As of December 31, 2023, our total outstanding short-term borrowings and long-term debt was approximately $11.2 billion. Subject to the limits contained in the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness, we may incur additional debt from time to time, which would increase the risks related to our level of indebtedness. Our level of indebtedness could have important potential consequences, including, but not limited to: • increasing our vulnerability to, and reducing our flexibility to plan for and respond to, adverse economic and industry conditions and changes in our business and the competitive environment; • requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, indebtedness, thereby reducing or eliminating the availability of such cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends, share repurchases or other corporate purposes; • increasing our vulnerability to a downgrade of our credit rating, which could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity and access to capital markets; • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • placing us at a disadvantage compared to other less leveraged competitors or competitors with comparable debt at more favorable interest rates; • increasing our exposure to the risk of increased interest rates insofar as current and future borrowings are subject to variable rates of interest or we are forced to refinance indebtedness at higher interest rates, which risks are heightened by the current elevated interest rate environment; • increasing our exposure to the risk of discontinuance, replacement or modification of certain reference rates; • making it more difficult for us to repay, refinance or satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds in the future and increasing the cost of any such borrowing; • imposing restrictive covenants on our operations due to the terms of our indebtedness, which, if not complied with, could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the applicable debt, and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies; and • increasing our exposure to risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency as we earn profits in a variety of currencies around the world and our debt is primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future debt or equity financings are not available to us on acceptable terms in amounts sufficient to pay our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs, our financial condition may be adversely affected. As a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. There is no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flow or refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms could have an adverse effect on our business, growth prospects and financial condition. 23

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Introduction and Overview The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”), should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements (“Financial Statements”) in Item 8 and the Forward-Looking Statements and the Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A. All Note references herein refer to the Notes to the Financial Statements. Tabular amounts are displayed in millions of U.S. dollars except per share and unit count amounts, or as otherwise specifically identified. Percentages may not recompute due to rounding. Yum! Brands, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to herein as the “Company”, “YUM”, “we”, “us” or “our”) franchise or operate a system of over 58,000 restaurants in more than 155 countries and territories, primarily under the concepts of KFC, Taco Bell, Pizza Hut and The Habit Burger Grill (collectively, the “Concepts”). The Company’s KFC, Taco Bell and Pizza Hut brands are global leaders of the chicken, Mexican-style food and pizza categories, respectively. The Habit Burger Grill is a fast-casual restaurant concept specializing in made-to-order chargrilled burgers, sandwiches and more. Of the over 58,000 restaurants, 98% are operated by franchisees. As of December 31, 2023, YUM consists of four operating segments: • The KFC Division which includes our worldwide operations of the KFC concept • The Taco Bell Division which includes our worldwide operations of the Taco Bell concept • The Pizza Hut Division which includes our worldwide operations of the Pizza Hut concept • The Habit Burger Grill Division which includes our worldwide operations of the Habit Burger Grill concept Through our Recipe for Good Growth we intend to unlock the growth potential of our Concepts and YUM, drive increased collaboration across our Concepts and geographies and consistently deliver better customer experiences, improved unit economics and higher rates of growth.  Key enablers include accelerated use of digital and technology and better leverage of our systemwide scale. Our global citizenship and sustainability strategy is reflected in our Good agenda, which includes our priorities for social responsibility, risk management and sustainable stewardship of our people, food and planet. Our Growth agenda is based on four key drivers: • Unrivaled Culture and Talent: Leverage our culture and people capability to fuel brand performance and franchise success • Unmatched Operating Capability: Recruit and equip the best restaurant operators in the world to deliver great customer experiences • Relevant, Easy and Distinctive Brands: Innovate and elevate iconic restaurant brands people trust and champion • Bold Restaurant Development: Drive market and franchise unit expansion with strong economics and value We intend to drive long-term growth and shareholder returns primarily through consistent same-store sales growth and new unit development across all of our Concepts. We intend to support this growth and development through a capital and operating structure that: • Invests capital in a manner consistent with an asset light, franchisor model; • Allocates G&A in an efficient manner that provides leverage to operating profit growth while at the same time opportunistically investing in strategic growth initiatives; • Maximize shareholder return through a combination of paying a competitive dividend and returning excess free cash flow through debt paydowns and share repurchases; and • Targets a consolidated net leverage ratio that balances shareholder returns, cost of capital and flexibility against various risk factors. We intend for this MD&A to provide the reader with information that will assist in understanding our results of operations, including performance metrics that management uses to assess the Company’s performance. Throughout this MD&A, we commonly discuss the following performance metrics: 30 • Same-store sales growth is the estimated percentage change in system sales of all restaurants that have been open and in the YUM system for one year or more (except as noted below), including those temporarily closed. From time-to-time restaurants may be temporarily closed due to remodeling or image enhancement, rebuilding, natural disasters, health epidemic or pandemic, landlord disputes or other issues. The system sales of restaurants we deem temporarily closed remain in our base for purposes of determining same-store sales growth and the restaurants remain in our unit count (see below). We believe same-store sales growth is useful to investors because our results are heavily dependent on the results of our Concepts' existing store base.  Additionally, same-store sales growth is reflective of the strength of our Brands, the effectiveness of our operational and advertising initiatives and local economic and consumer trends. In 2021, when calculating respective same-store sales growth we also included in our prior year base the sales of stores that were added as a result of our acquisition of The Habit Restaurants, Inc. on March 18, 2020, and that were open for one year or more. • Gross unit openings reflects new openings by us and our franchisees. Net new unit growth reflects gross unit openings offset by permanent store closures, by us and our franchisees. To determine whether a restaurant meets the definition of a unit we consider factors such as whether the restaurant has operations that are ongoing and independent from another YUM unit, serves the primary product of one of our Concepts, operates under a separate franchise agreement (if operated by a franchisee) and has substantial and sustainable sales. We believe gross unit openings and net new unit growth are useful to investors because we depend on new units for a significant portion of our growth. Additionally, gross unit openings and net new unit growth are generally reflective of the economic returns to us and our franchisees from opening and operating our Concept restaurants. • System sales and System sales excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation (“FX”) reflect the results of all restaurants regardless of ownership, including Company-owned and franchise restaurants. Sales at franchise restaurants typically generate ongoing franchise and license fees for the Company at a rate of 3% to 6% of sales. Increasingly, customers are paying a fee to a third party to deliver or facilitate the ordering of our Concepts’ products. We also include in System sales any portion of the amount customers pay these third parties for which the third party is obligated to pay us a license fee as a percentage of such amount. Franchise restaurant sales and fees paid by customers to third parties to deliver or facilitate the ordering of our Concepts’ products are not included in Company sales on the Consolidated Statements of Income; however, any resulting franchise and license fees we receive are included in the Company’s revenues. We believe System sales growth is useful to investors as a significant indicator of the overall strength of our business as it incorporates our primary revenue drivers, Company and franchise same-store sales as well as net unit growth. As of the beginning of the second quarter of 2022, as a result of our progress towards exiting Russia and our decision to reclass future net profits attributable to Russia subsequent to the date of invasion of Ukraine from the Division segments in which those profits were earned to Unallocated Other income (see Notes 3 and 19), we elected to remove all Russia units from our unit count as well as to begin excluding those units’ associated sales from our system sales totals. We removed 1,112 units and 53 units in Russia from our global KFC and Pizza Hut unit counts, respectively. These units were treated similar to permanent store closures for purposes of our same-store sales calculations and thus they were removed from our same-store sales calculations beginning April 1, 2022. In addition to the results provided in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States of America (“GAAP”), the Company provides the following non-GAAP measurements. • Diluted Earnings Per Share excluding Special Items (as defined below); • Effective Tax Rate excluding Special Items; • Core Operating Profit. Core Operating Profit excludes Special Items and FX and we use Core Operating Profit for the purposes of evaluating performance internally; • Company restaurant profit and Company restaurant margin as a percentage of sales (as defined below). These non-GAAP measurements are not intended to replace the presentation of our financial results in accordance with GAAP. Rather, the Company believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP measurements provide additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations. Special Items are not included in any of our Division segment results as the Company does not believe they are indicative of our ongoing operations due to their size and/or nature.  Our chief operating decision maker does not consider the impact of Special Items when assessing segment performance. 31 Company restaurant profit is defined as Company sales less Company restaurant expenses, both of which appear on the face of our Consolidated Statements of Income. Company restaurant expenses include those expenses incurred directly by our Company-owned restaurants in generating Company sales, including cost of food and paper, cost of restaurant-level labor, rent, depreciation and amortization of restaurant-level assets and advertising expenses incurred by and on behalf of that Company restaurant. Company restaurant margin as a percentage of sales (“Company restaurant margin %”) is defined as Company restaurant profit divided by Company sales. We use Company restaurant profit for the purposes of internally evaluating the performance of our Company-owned restaurants and we believe Company restaurant profit provides useful information to investors as to the profitability of our Company-owned restaurants. In calculating Company restaurant profit, the Company excludes revenues and expenses directly associated with our franchise operations as well as non-restaurant-level costs included in General and administrative expenses, some of which may support Company-owned restaurant operations. The Company also excludes restaurant-level asset impairment and closures expenses, which have historically not been significant, from the determination of Company restaurant profit as such expenses are not believed to be indicative of ongoing operations. Company restaurant profit and Company restaurant margin % as presented may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures of other companies in the industry. Certain performance metrics and non-GAAP measurements are presented excluding the impact of FX. These amounts are derived by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates. We believe the elimination of the FX impact provides better year-to-year comparability without the distortion of foreign currency fluctuations. Results of Operations Summary All comparisons within this summary are versus the same period a year ago. For discussion of our results of operations for 2022 compared to 2021, refer to the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Part II, Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, filed with the SEC on February 27, 2023. 2023 financial highlights: Additionally: • Foreign currency translation unfavorably impacted Divisional Operating Profit by $49 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. This included a negative impact to our KFC Division Operating Profit of $41 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. • Gross unit openings for the year were 4,754 units resulting in 3,349 net new units. 32 Worldwide GAAP Results (a) See Note 4 for the number of shares used in this calculation. Performance Metrics 33 Our system sales breakdown by Company and franchise sales was as follows: (a) Company sales represents sales from our Company-operated stores as presented on our Consolidated Statements of Income. (b) The foreign currency impact on System sales is presented in relation only to the immediately preceding year presented. When determining applicable System sales growth percentages, the System sales excluding FX for the current year should be compared to the prior year System sales prior to adjustment for the prior year FX impact. 34 35 36 (a) Due to their size and volatility, we have reflected as Special Items those refranchising gains and losses that were recorded in connection with market-wide refranchisings. During the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2021, we recorded net refranchising losses of $5 million and $4 million, respectively, that have been reflected as Special Items. Additionally, during the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, we recorded net refranchising gains of $34 million, $27 million and $39 million, respectively, that have not been reflected as Special Items. These net refranchising gains relate to refranchising of restaurants unrelated to market-wide refranchisings that we believe are indicative of our expected ongoing refranchising activity. (b) In the first quarter of 2022, as a result of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, we suspended all investment and restaurant development in Russia. We also suspended all operations of our 70 company-owned KFC restaurants in Russia and began finalizing an agreement to suspend all Pizza Hut operations in Russia, in partnership with our master franchisee. Further, we pledged to redirect any future net profits attributable to Russia subsequent to the date of invasion to humanitarian efforts. During the second quarter of 2022, we completed the transfer of ownership of the Pizza Hut Russia business to a local operator. In the second quarter of 2023, we completed our exit from the Russia market by selling the KFC business in Russia. Our GAAP operating results presented herein reflect revenues from and expenses to support the Russian operations for KFC and Pizza Hut prior to the dates of sale or transfer, within their historical financial statement line items and operating segments. However, given our decision to exit Russia and our pledge to direct any future net profits attributable to Russia subsequent to the date of invasion to humanitarian efforts, we reclassed such net operating profits or losses from the Division segment results in which they were earned to Unallocated Other income (expense). Additionally, we incurred certain expenses related to the dispositions of the businesses and other one-time costs related to our exit from Russia which we recorded within Corporate and unallocated G&A and Unallocated Franchise and property expenses. Also recorded in Unallocated Other income (expense) were foreign exchange impacts attributable to fluctuations in the value of the Russian ruble and a charge of $3 million recorded during the year ended December 31, 2023, as a result of the completion of the sale of the KFC Russia business. The resulting net Operating Loss of $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, and net Operating Profit of $44 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, have been reflected as Special Items. (c) Charges related to a resource optimization program initiated in the third quarter of 2020. See Note 5. Due to their scope and size, the charges over the life of the program, which have primarily resulted from severance associated with positions that have been eliminated or relocated and consultant fees, are being recorded as Special Items. (d) Amounts recorded in connection with redemptions of long-term debt. See Note 5. Due to their size and the fact that they are not indicative of our ongoing interest expense, these amounts have been reflected as Special Items. (e) The below table includes the detail of Special Items Tax (Benefit) Expense: Tax (Benefit) Expense on Special Items Operating Profit and Interest Expense was determined by assessing the tax impact of each individual component within Special Items based upon the nature of the item and jurisdictional tax law. In addition to the corresponding Tax (Benefit) Expense on the Operating (Profit) Loss impact from our decision to exit Russia as included above, Special Items Tax (Benefit) Expense also includes $72 million of incremental net tax expense recorded in the year ended December 31, 2022 from the remeasurement and reassessment of the need for a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets in Switzerland due to the expected reduction in the tax basis of intellectual property rights ("IP") associated with the loss of the Russian royalty income. In addition, we reassessed certain deferred tax liabilities associated with the Russia business given the expectation that the existing basis difference would reverse by way of sale. 37 Special Items Tax (Benefit) Expense includes $183 million, $82 million and $251 million of tax benefit recorded in the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 respectively, associated with intra-entity transfers and valuations of certain IP rights. • The benefit recorded in the year ended December 31, 2023, resulted primarily from $99 million of deferred tax benefit arising from the remeasurement of deferred tax assets associated with previously transferred IP rights in Switzerland as a result of an increase in our jurisdictional tax rate, as well as a $29 million deferred tax benefit associated with credits granted by local Swiss tax authorities. The benefit recorded in the year ended December 31, 2023, also includes $30 million of deferred tax benefit associated with the intra-entity transfer of certain Asia region IP rights to Singapore or the U.S. • The benefit recorded in the year ended December 31, 2022, resulted from the remeasurement of deferred tax assets associated with IP rights held in Switzerland in connection with an annual valuation under Swiss law, as well as the reassessment of the need for a valuation allowance on those deferred tax assets based on forecasted future taxable income. The annual valuation supported an increase to tax basis of Swiss IP rights associated with parts of our business that continue to use these IP rights due to expected royalty growth assumptions in those parts of the business that largely offset the loss of Russia royalty income associated with such IP rights as a result of our decision to exit the Russia market. • The benefit recorded in the year ended December 31, 2021, resulted primarily from $187 million of tax benefit as a result of concentration of management responsibility for European (excluding the UK) KFC franchise development, support operations and management oversight in Switzerland. Concurrent with this change in management responsibility, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain KFC IP rights from subsidiaries in the UK to subsidiaries in Switzerland, and later, additional European IP rights from subsidiaries in the U.S. to subsidiaries in Switzerland. With the transfers of these rights, we received a step-up in amortizable basis of those IP rights to current fair value under Swiss law. The benefit recorded in the year ended December 31, 2021, also includes $64 million of benefit resulting from the remeasurement of deferred tax assets associated with previously transferred IP rights in the UK as a result of an increase in our jurisdictional tax rate. Other Income Tax impacts recorded as Special in the year ended December 31, 2023 include $41 million of expense associated with a correction in the timing of capital loss utilization related to refranchising gains previously recorded as Special Items to tax years with a lower statutory tax rate. Reconciliation of GAAP Operating Profit to Company Restaurant Profit 38 Items Impacting Reported Results and/or Reasonably Likely to Impact Future Results The following items impacted reported results in 2023 and/or 2022 and/or are reasonably likely to impact future results.  See also the Detail of Special Items section of this MD&A for other items similarly impacting results. 39 Middle East Conflict During the fourth quarter of 2023, certain of our markets, principally in our KFC and Pizza Hut Divisions, began being impacted by a military conflict in the Middle East region. As a result, our sales were impacted to varying degrees in markets across the Middle East, Malaysia and Indonesia. This represented a low single-digit headwind to fourth-quarter same-store sales growth. This trend has continued into the first quarter of 2024, and we expect the sales impact to decrease over the course of 2024. Impact of Foreign Currency Translation on Operating Profit Changes in foreign currency exchange rates negatively impacted the translation of our foreign currency denominated Divisional Operating Profit by $49 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. This included a negative impact to our KFC Division Operating Profit of $41 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. For 2024, we currently expect changes in foreign currency to negatively impact Divisional Operating Profit by approximately $10 to $30 million, primarily in the first half of the year. Investment in Devyani In 2020, we received an approximate 5% minority interest in Devyani International Limited (“Devyani”), an entity that owns our KFC India and Pizza Hut India master franchisee rights. The minority interest was received in lieu of cash proceeds upon the refranchising of approximately 60 KFC restaurants in India. On August 16, 2021, Devyani executed an initial public offering and subsequently the fair value of this investment became readily determinable. As a result, concurrent with the initial public offering we began recording changes in fair value in Investment (income) expense, net in our Consolidated Statements of Income and recognized pre-tax investment income of $8 million and $11 million in the years ended December 31, 2023 and  2022, respectively. KFC Division The KFC Division has 29,900 units, 87% of which are located outside the U.S.  Additionally, 99% of the KFC Division units were operated by franchisees as of the end of 2023. 40 Company sales and Company restaurant margin % In 2023, the increase in Company sales, excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, was driven by Company same-store sales growth of 5%, partially offset by the suspension of operations of our 70 company owned KFC restaurants in Russia. In 2023, the increase in Company restaurant margin percentage was driven by Company same-store sales growth, partially offset by commodity inflation. Franchise and property revenues In 2023, the increase in Franchise and property revenues, excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, was driven by franchise same-store sales growth of 7% and unit growth, partially offset by a 5% negative impact from the sale of our KFC Russia business. G&A In 2023, the decrease in G&A, excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, was driven by the impact of the sale of our KFC Russia business, partially offset by higher headcount and salaries, and higher expenses related to our annual incentive compensation programs. Operating Profit In 2023, the increase in Operating Profit, excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, was driven by same-store sales growth and unit growth, partially offset by higher restaurant operating costs and the negative impact of 1 percentage point on operating profit growth as a result of lower profits in Russia. 41 Taco Bell Division The Taco Bell Division has 8,564 units, 86% of which are in the U.S.  The Company owned 7% of the Taco Bell units in the U.S. as of the end of 2023. Company sales and Company restaurant margin % In 2023, the increase in Company sales was driven by company same-store sales growth of 5% and unit growth partially offset by refranchising. In 2023, the increase in Company restaurant margin percentage was driven by same-store sales growth partially offset by higher labor costs, commodity inflation and increases in other restaurant operating costs. Franchise and property revenues In 2023, the increase in Franchise and property revenues was driven by franchise same-store sales growth of 6%  and unit growth. G&A In 2023, the increase in G&A was driven by higher digital and technology expenses and higher headcount and salaries, partially offset by lower expenses related to our annual incentive compensation programs. Operating Profit In 2023, the increase in Operating Profit was driven by same-store sales growth and unit growth partially offset by higher restaurant operating costs and higher G&A. 42 Pizza Hut Division The Pizza Hut Division has 19,866 units, 67% of which are located outside the U.S.  Over 99% of the Pizza Hut Division units were operated by franchisees as of the end of 2023.  The Pizza Hut Division uses multiple distribution channels including delivery, dine-in and express (e.g. airports) and includes units operating under both the Pizza Hut and Telepizza brands. Franchise and property revenues In 2023, the increase in Franchise and property revenues, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation, was driven by unit growth and franchise same-store sales growth of 2%, partially offset by lapping the prior year recognition of franchise fees related to unexercised development rights arising from a master franchise agreement. G&A In 2023, the increase in G&A, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation, was driven by higher headcount and salaries, higher professional fees and higher travel related expenses. Operating Profit In 2023, the increase in Operating Profit, excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation, was driven by unit growth and same-store sales growth, partially offset by higher G&A and lapping the prior year recognition of franchise fees related to unexercised development rights arising from a master franchise agreement. 43 Habit Burger Grill Division The Habit Burger Grill Division has 378 units, the vast majority of which are in the U.S. The Company owned 84% of the Habit Burger Grill units in the U.S. as of December 31, 2023. Corporate & Unallocated Corporate and unallocated G&A In 2023, the increase in Corporate and Unallocated G&A expenses was driven by higher costs associated with our resource optimization program, higher current year expenses related to our annual incentive compensation programs and costs associated with the previously disclosed January 2023 ransomware attack. Unallocated Other income (expense) Unallocated Other income (expense) for the year ended December 31, 2022, includes Russia net operating profits of $44 million reclassed from KFC and Pizza Hut Division Other income due to our decision to exit Russia (see Note 19). Interest expense, net The decrease in Interest expense, net for 2023 was primarily driven by lapping $28 million of expense in the prior year relating to the call premium and unamortized debt issuance costs written-off associated with the redemption of the 2025 Notes (as discussed in our 2022 Form 10-K) and higher interest income. This was partially offset by a higher weighted average interest rate. 44 Consolidated Cash Flows Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,603 million in 2023 versus $1,427 million in 2022. The increase was largely driven by an increase in Operating profit and a decrease in incentive compensation payments, partially offset by higher tax payments. Net cash used in investing activities was $107 million in 2023 versus $202 million in 2022. The change was primarily driven by proceeds from the current year sale of KFC Russia, partially offset by lower refranchising proceeds. Net cash used in financing activities was $1,429 million in 2023 versus $1,323 million in 2022. The change was primarily driven by lower net borrowings, partially offset by lower current year share repurchases. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have historically generated substantial cash flows from our extensive franchise operations, which require a limited YUM investment, and from the operations of our Company-owned stores. Our annual operating cash flows have been in excess of $1.3 billion in each of the past five years and we expect that to continue to be the case in 2024.  It is our intent to use these operating cash flows to continue to invest in growing our business and pay a competitive dividend, with any remaining excess then returned to shareholders through debt paydowns and share repurchases. To the extent operating cash flows plus other sources of cash do not cover our anticipated cash needs, we maintain a $1.25 billion Revolving Facility under our Credit Agreement (see Note 11) that was undrawn as of December 31, 2023. We believe that our ongoing cash from operations, cash on hand, which was approximately $500 million at December 31, 2023, and availability under our Revolving Facility will be sufficient to fund our cash requirements over the next twelve months. Our material cash requirements include the following contractual and other obligations. Debt Obligations and Interest Payments As of December 31, 2023, approximately 94%, including the impact of interest rate swaps, of our $11.2 billion of total debt outstanding, excluding finance leases and debt issuance costs and discounts, is fixed with an effective overall interest rate of approximately 4.6%. We ended 2023 with a consolidated net leverage ratio of 4.2x EBITDA . We continually reassess our optimal leverage ratio to maximize shareholder returns. We target a capital structure which we believe provides an attractive balance between optimized interest rates, duration and flexibility with diversified sources of liquidity and maturities spread over multiple years. We currently have credit ratings of BB (Standard & Poor’s)/Ba2 (Moody’s). The following table summarizes the future maturities of our outstanding long-term debt, excluding finance leases and debt issuance costs and discounts, as of December 31, 2023. Interest payments on the outstanding long-term debt in the table above total approximately $3.1 billion, with approximately $500 million due within the next twelve months on the outstanding amounts on a nominal basis. The estimated interest payments related to the variable rate portion of our debt, net of our interest rate swaps, are based on current Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) interest rates. See Note 11 for details on the Securitization Notes, the Credit Agreement, Subsidiary Senior Unsecured Notes and YUM Senior Unsecured Notes. 45 Operating and Finance Leases Payments required under our operating and finance leases total $1,163 million, of which $128 million is payable within the next 12 months. These amounts are on a nominal basis and include payments related to lease renewal options we are reasonably certain to exercise. These leases relate primarily to approximately 700 Company-owned restaurants and approximately 250 leased restaurants for which we sublease land, building or both to our franchisees.  See Note 12. Investing Activities We remain committed to maintaining our asset light, franchisor model that includes at least a 98% franchise mix. Our allocation strategy for investing activities includes: • Run-rate capital expenditures consisting of company restaurant repairs, maintenance and remodels, support of our digital and technology initiatives and project-specific capital expenditures, • Targeted new company unit development to spur additional growth that is largely funded through refranchising a comparable number of existing company units, and • Strategic investments that create incremental value for shareholders and franchisees. In 2024, we expect that company store investments will exceed refranchising proceeds by $85 to $95 million, primarily driven by our strategy to accelerate growth of Habit Burger Grill company units and continued investments in Taco Bell company restaurants. This will result in net capital expenditures of approximately $275 million, reflecting up to $315 million of gross capital expenditures and $40 million of refranchising proceeds. Additionally, on December 6th, 2023, the Company announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire 218 KFC restaurants in the U.K. and Ireland from a franchisee. The transaction will be funded from the Company’s cash on hand and is expected to close early in 2024. Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on us and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. We have excluded agreements that are cancellable without penalty. Our purchase obligations relate primarily to marketing, information technology and supply agreements. We have purchase obligations of approximately $425 million at December 31, 2023, with approximately $250 million due within the next 12 months. In addition to our contractual and other obligations, we seek to pay a competitive dividend and return excess cash to shareholders through share repurchases. As discussed in Note 20, we are also subject to claims and contingencies related to certain tax and legal matters that may require future cash outlays. Dividends and Share Repurchases In January 2024, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.67 per share of Common Stock, a 11% increase from the quarterly dividend of $0.605 per share of Common Stock paid in 2023. This quarterly dividend will be distributed March 8, 2024, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 21, 2024, and will total approximately $190 million. In September 2022, our Board of Directors authorized share repurchases of up to $2 billion (excluding applicable transaction fees) of our outstanding Common Stock through June 30, 2024. This authorization took effect during the fourth quarter of 2022 upon the exhaustion of a prior authorization approved in May 2021. As of December 31, 2023, we have remaining capacity to repurchase up to $1.7 billion of Common Stock under the September 2022 authorization. This authorization does not obligate the Company to acquire any specific number of shares. 46 Contingencies As discussed in Note 20, as a result of an audit by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for fiscal years 2013 through 2015, in August 2022, we received a Revenue Agent’s Report (“RAR”) from the IRS asserting an underpayment of tax of $2.1 billion plus $418 million in penalties for the 2014 fiscal year. Additionally, interest on the underpayment is estimated to be approximately $1.1 billion through December 31, 2023. The proposed underpayment relates primarily to a series of reorganizations we undertook during that year in connection with the business realignment of our corporate and management reporting structure along brand lines. The IRS asserts that these transactions resulted in taxable distributions of approximately $6.0 billion. We disagree with the IRS’s position as asserted in the RAR and intend to contest that position vigorously. In September 2022, we filed a Protest with the IRS Examination Division disputing on multiple grounds the proposed underpayment of tax and penalties. We have received the IRS Examination Division’s Rebuttal to our Protest and the case has been accepted by the IRS Office of Appeals. Also, as discussed in Note 20, on January 29, 2020, we received an order from the Special Director of the Directorate of Enforcement (“DOE”) in India imposing a penalty on Yum! Restaurants India Private Limited (“YRIPL”) of approximately Indian Rupee 11 billion, or approximately $135 million, primarily relating to alleged violations of operating conditions imposed in 1993 and 1994. We have been advised by external counsel that the order is flawed and have filed a writ petition with the Delhi High Court, which granted an interim stay of the penalty order on March 5, 2020. In November 2022, YRIPL was notified that an administrative tribunal bench had been constituted to hear an appeal by DOE of certain findings of the January 2020 order, including claims that certain charges had been wrongly dropped and that an insufficient amount of penalty had been imposed. A hearing with the administrative tribunal that had been scheduled for December 4, 2023 has been rescheduled to March 4, 2024. The stay order remains in effect, and the next hearing in the Delhi High Court that had been scheduled for December 14, 2023 has been rescheduled to March 21, 2024. We deny liability and intend to continue vigorously defending this matter. See the Lease Guarantees section of Note 20 for discussion of our off-balance sheet arrangements. New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In November 2023, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2023-07, Segment Reporting (Topic 280): Improvements to Reportable Segment Disclosures, which updates reportable segment disclosure requirements through enhanced disclosures about significant segment expenses. The standard is effective for the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2024, and subsequent interim periods, with early adoption permitted. The amendments should be applied retrospectively to all prior periods presented in the financial statements. We are currently evaluating the impact of the standard on our disclosures. In December 2023, the FASB issued ASU 2023-09, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures, which updates income tax disclosure requirements related to the income tax rate reconciliation and requires disclosure of income taxes paid by jurisdiction. The standard is effective for the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2025 with early adoption permitted. The amendments should be applied prospectively; however, retrospective application is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of the standard on our disclosures. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our reported results are impacted by the application of certain accounting policies that require us to make subjective or complex judgments.  These judgments involve estimations of the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may significantly impact our quarterly or annual results of operations or financial condition.  Changes in the estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations and financial condition and cash flows in future years.  A description of what we consider to be critical accounting policies follows. Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets We review long-lived assets of restaurants we intend to continue operating as Company restaurants (primarily PP&E, right-of-use operating lease assets and allocated intangible assets subject to amortization) annually for impairment, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a restaurant may not be recoverable. We use two consecutive years of operating losses as our primary indicator of potential impairment for our annual impairment testing of these restaurant 47 assets. We evaluate recoverability based on the restaurant’s forecasted undiscounted cash flows, which incorporate our best estimate of sales growth and margin improvement based upon our plans for the unit and actual results at comparable restaurants.  For restaurant assets that are deemed to not be recoverable, we write-down the impaired restaurant to its estimated fair value. Fair value is an estimate of the price a franchisee would pay for the restaurant and its related assets, including any right-of-use assets, and is determined by discounting the estimated future after-tax cash flows of the restaurant, which include a deduction for royalties we would receive under a franchise agreement with terms substantially at market. The after-tax cash flows incorporate reasonable sales growth and margin improvement assumptions as well as expectations as to the useful lives of the restaurant assets that would be used by a franchisee in the determination of a purchase price for the restaurant. We perform an impairment evaluation at a restaurant group level when it is more likely than not that we will refranchise restaurants as a group.  Expected net sales proceeds are generally based on actual bids from the buyer, if available, or anticipated bids given the discounted projected after-tax cash flows for the group of restaurants.  Historically, these anticipated bids have been reasonably accurate estimations of the proceeds ultimately received. The after-tax cash flows used in determining the anticipated bids incorporate similar assumptions to those of a restaurant level assessment. The discount rate used in the fair value calculations is our estimate of the required rate of return that a franchisee would expect to receive when purchasing a similar restaurant or groups of restaurants and the related long-lived assets.  The discount rate incorporates rates of returns for historical refranchising market transactions and is commensurate with the risks and uncertainty inherent in the forecasted cash flows. Estimates of future cash flows are highly subjective judgments and can be significantly impacted by changes in the business or economic conditions. We formulate these estimates in consideration of historical experience, recent economic and industry trends, and competitive conditions. If our estimates or underlying assumptions, including the discount rate, change, we may experience higher impairment charges in the future. We evaluate indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis as of the beginning of our fourth quarter or more often if an event occurs or circumstances change that indicates impairment might exist. Fair value is an estimate of the price a willing buyer would pay for the intangible asset and is generally estimated by discounting the expected future after-tax cash flows associated with the intangible asset. Our most significant indefinite-lived intangible asset is our Habit Burger Grill brand asset with a book value of $96 million at December 31, 2023. As of our fourth quarter 2023 annual impairment testing date, the fair values of all of our indefinite-lived intangible assets were in excess of their respective carrying values and no impairment was recorded. Impairment of Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment on an annual basis as of the beginning of our fourth quarter or more often if an event occurs or circumstances change that indicates impairment might exist.  Goodwill is evaluated for impairment by determining whether the fair value of our reporting units exceed their carrying values.  Our reporting units are our business units (which are aligned based on geography) in our KFC, Taco Bell, Pizza Hut and Habit Burger Grill Divisions. Fair value is the price a willing buyer would pay for the reporting unit, and is generally estimated using discounted expected future after-tax cash flows from franchise royalties and Company-owned restaurant operations, if any.  Future cash flow estimates and the discount rate are the key assumptions when estimating the fair value of a reporting unit. Future cash flows are based on growth expectations relative to recent historical performance and incorporate sales growth (from net new units or same-store sales growth) and margin improvement (for those reporting units which include Company-owned restaurant operations) assumptions that we believe a third-party buyer would assume when determining a purchase price for the reporting unit.  Any margin improvement assumptions that factor into the discounted cash flows are highly correlated with sales growth as cash flow growth can be achieved through various interrelated strategies such as product pricing and restaurant productivity initiatives. The discount rate is our estimate of the required rate of return that a third-party buyer would expect to receive when purchasing a business from us that constitutes a reporting unit. We believe the discount rate is commensurate with the risks and uncertainty inherent in the forecasted cash flows. The fair values of all our reporting units with goodwill balances were in excess of their respective carrying values as of our fourth quarter 2023 goodwill testing date, with all but the Habit Burger Grill reporting unit having fair values that were substantially in excess of their respective carrying values. As it relates to our Habit Burger Grill reporting unit, which includes a goodwill balance of $66 million as of the end of 2023, the assumptions that are most impactful to our fair value estimate include margin improvement, sales growth from net new units and same-store sales growth. Significant changes in the 48 assumptions used in our analysis could result in a future goodwill impairment charge. Circumstances that could result in changes to our assumptions and related fair value estimate include, but are not limited to, expectations of lower than originally estimated margin improvement, which can be caused by a variety of factors including changes in expected labor costs and commodity inflation. When we refranchise restaurants, we include goodwill in the carrying amount of the restaurants disposed of based on the relative fair values of the portion of the reporting unit disposed of in the refranchising versus the portion of the reporting unit that will be retained.  The fair value of the portion of the reporting unit disposed of in a refranchising is determined by reference to the discounted value of the future cash flows expected to be generated by the restaurant and retained by the franchisee, which include a deduction for the anticipated, future royalties the franchisee will pay us associated with the franchise agreement entered into simultaneously with the refranchising transaction. The fair value of the reporting unit retained is based on the price a willing buyer would pay for the reporting unit retained and includes the value of franchise agreements. Appropriate adjustments are made to the fair value determinations if such franchise agreement is determined to not be at prevailing market rates. As such, the fair value of the reporting unit retained can include expected future cash flows from royalties from those restaurants currently being refranchised, royalties from existing franchise businesses and retained company restaurant operations.  As a result, the percentage of a reporting unit’s goodwill that will be written off in a refranchising transaction will be less than the percentage of the reporting unit’s Company-owned restaurants that are refranchised in that transaction and goodwill can be allocated to a reporting unit with only franchise restaurants. When determining whether such franchise agreement is at prevailing market rates our primary consideration is consistency with the terms of our current franchise agreements both within the country that the restaurants are being refranchised in and around the world.  The Company believes consistency in royalty rates as a percentage of sales is appropriate as the Company and franchisee share in the impact of near-term fluctuations in sales results with the acknowledgment that over the long-term the royalty rate represents an appropriate rate for both parties. The discounted value of the future cash flows expected to be generated by the restaurant and retained by the franchisee is reduced by future royalties the franchisee will pay the Company.  The Company thus considers the fair value of future royalties to be received under the franchise agreement as fair value retained in its determination of the goodwill to be written off when refranchising.  Others may consider the fair value of these future royalties as fair value disposed of and thus would conclude that a larger percentage of a reporting unit’s fair value is disposed of in a refranchising transaction. During 2023, refranchising activity completed by the Company was limited and the write-off of goodwill associated with these transactions was less than $1 million. Pension Plans Certain of our employees are covered under defined benefit pension plans. Our two most significant plans are in the U.S. and combined had a projected benefit obligation (“PBO”) of $778 million and a fair value of plan assets of $680 million at December 31, 2023. The PBO reflects the actuarial present value of all benefits earned to date by employees and incorporates assumptions as to future compensation levels.  Due to the relatively long time frame over which benefits earned to date are expected to be paid, our PBOs are highly sensitive to changes in discount rates.  For our U.S. plans, we measured our PBOs using a discount rate of 5.60% at December 31, 2023. The primary basis for this discount rate determination is a model that consists of a hypothetical portfolio of ten or more corporate debt instruments rated Aa or higher by Moody’s or Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”) with cash flows that mirror our expected benefit payment cash flows under the plans. We exclude from the model those corporate debt instruments flagged by Moody’s or S&P for a potential downgrade (if the potential downgrade would result in a rating below Aa by both Moody’s and S&P) and bonds with yields that were two standard deviations or more above the mean. In considering possible bond portfolios, the model allows the bond cash flows for a particular year to exceed the expected benefit payment cash flows for that year. Such excesses are assumed to be reinvested at appropriate one-year forward rates and used to meet the benefit payment cash flows in a future year. The weighted-average yield of this hypothetical portfolio was used to arrive at an appropriate discount rate. We also ensure that changes in the discount rate as compared to the prior year are consistent with the overall change in prevailing market rates and make adjustments as necessary. A 50 basis-point increase in this discount rate would have decreased these U.S. plans’ PBOs by approximately $40 million at our measurement date. Conversely, a 50 basis-point decrease in this discount rate would have increased our U.S. plans’ PBOs by approximately $45 million at our measurement date. The net periodic benefit cost we will record in 2024 is also impacted by the discount rate, as well as the long-term rates of return on plan assets and mortality assumptions we selected at our measurement date. We expect net periodic benefit income for our U.S. plans of $3 million in 2024 compared to $4 million of periodic benefit income in 2023, which represents a decrease in 49 benefit of $1 million year-over-year.  A 50 basis-point change in our discount rate assumption at our 2023 measurement date would impact our 2024 U.S. net periodic benefit cost by approximately $5 million. The impacts of changes in net periodic benefit costs are reflected primarily in Other pension (income) expense. Our estimated long-term rate of return on U.S. plan assets is based upon the weighted-average of historical and expected future returns for each asset category. Our expected long-term rate of return on U.S. plan assets, for purposes of determining 2024 pension expense, at December 31, 2023, was 6.35%, net of administrative and investment fees paid from plan assets.  We believe this rate is appropriate given the composition of our plan assets and historical market returns thereon. A 100 basis point change in our expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption would impact our 2024 U.S. net periodic benefit cost by approximately $8 million. Additionally, every 100 basis point variation in actual return on plan assets versus our expected return of 6.35% will impact our unrecognized pre-tax actuarial net loss by approximately $8 million. We have an unrecognized pre-tax actuarial net loss of $84 million included in Accumulated other comprehensive income for these U.S. plans at December 31, 2023. We will recognize approximately $1 million of loss in net periodic benefit cost in 2024 versus $1 million of gain recognized in 2023. Income Taxes At December 31, 2023, we had valuation allowances of $386 million to reduce our $1,758 million of deferred tax assets to amounts that are more likely than not to be realized. The net deferred tax assets primarily relate to temporary differences in profitable U.S. federal, state and foreign jurisdictions and net operating losses in certain foreign jurisdictions, the majority of which do not expire. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets, we consider future taxable income in the various jurisdictions, carryforward periods, restrictions on usage and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. The estimation of future taxable income in these jurisdictions and our resulting ability to utilize deferred tax assets can significantly change based on future events, including our determinations as to feasibility of certain tax planning strategies and refranchising plans. Thus, recorded valuation allowances may be subject to material future changes. As a matter of course, we are regularly audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. We recognize the benefit of positions taken or expected to be taken in our tax returns in our Income tax provision when it is more likely than not that the position would be sustained upon examination by these tax authorities. A recognized tax position is then measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely of being realized upon settlement. At December 31, 2023, we had $151 million of unrecognized tax benefits, $102 million of which would impact the effective income tax rate if recognized. We evaluate unrecognized tax benefits, including interest thereon, on a quarterly basis to ensure that they have been appropriately adjusted for events, including audit settlements, which may impact our ultimate payment for such exposures. Repatriation of earnings generated after December 31, 2017, will generally be eligible for the 100% dividends received deduction or considered a distribution of previously taxed income and, therefore, exempt from U.S. federal tax. Undistributed foreign earnings may still be subject to certain state and foreign income and withholding taxes upon repatriation. Subject to limited exceptions, we do not intend to indefinitely reinvest our unremitted earnings outside the U.S. Thus, we have  provided taxes, including any U.S. federal and state income, foreign income, or foreign withholding taxes on the majority of our unremitted earnings. In jurisdictions where we do intend to indefinitely reinvest our unremitted earnings, we would be required to accrue and pay applicable income taxes (if any) and foreign withholding taxes if the funds were repatriated in taxable transactions. We believe any such taxes would be immaterial.