********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

We operate in a rapidly changing economic and technological environment that presents numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict.  Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be impacted by a number of factors.  In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially harm our business, financial condition or results of operations, including causing our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.  The following list of material risk factors is not all-inclusive or necessarily in order of importance.  Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may materially adversely affect us in future periods.  You should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our securities. 13 Risks Related to our Business, Operations and Strategy Our success depends on our ability to effectively develop and market our products against those of our competitors. We operate in a highly competitive environment.  Our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by one or more of our present or future competitors.  To remain competitive, we must continue to identify, prioritize, develop and acquire new products and technologies, as well as identify, prioritize and improve existing products and technologies.  We must also obtain and maintain regulatory approvals for such products, accurately forecast demand, manufacture the correct mix of products, distribute products to multiple global markets and market those products profitably.  For example, we have experienced elevated charges for excess and obsolete inventory while also facing increased backorders due to unpredictable demand fluctuations across our various markets, and there can be no assurance that production mix planning or inventory allocation will match end market demand. Competition within our markets is primarily on the basis of technology, innovation, quality, reputation, customer service and pricing.  In markets outside of the U.S., other factors influence competition as well, including local distribution systems, complex regulatory environments, and differing medical philosophies and product preferences.  Our competition may have greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources than us; respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies; undertake more extensive marketing campaigns; operate more effective planning, manufacturing, sales and distribution channels; adopt more aggressive pricing policies; or be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners.  We also face competition from pharmaceutical and other therapies that may be more attractive than, or have other benefits over, our products, or that could affect the frequency, progressions or symptoms of diseases and conditions that our products treat.  Any of these factors, alone or in combination, could cause us to have difficulty maintaining or increasing sales of our products or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our products may become obsolete, customers may not buy our products, and our revenue and profitability may decline without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, due to changes in markets, or due to changes in applicable standards of care. Demand for our products may change, in certain cases, in ways we may not anticipate because of evolving customer needs, changing demographics, changing industry growth rates, declines in the musculoskeletal implant market, the introduction of competing products and technologies, the emergence of alternative treatment methods, and evolving surgical philosophies and industry standards.  Our products may become obsolete without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, or due to changes in applicable standards of care.  If that happens, our revenue and operating results would suffer.  The success of our new and enhanced product offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to properly identify and anticipate customer needs; commercialize new products in a timely manner; manufacture and deliver instruments and products in sufficient volumes on time; differentiate our offerings from competitors’ offerings; achieve positive clinical outcomes for new products; satisfy the increased demands by healthcare payors, providers and patients for shorter hospital stays, faster post-operative recovery and lower-cost procedures; innovate and develop new materials, product designs and surgical techniques; and provide adequate medical education relating to new products. In addition, new materials, product designs, product enhancements and surgical techniques that we develop may not be accepted quickly, in some or all markets, because of, among other factors, the need for regulatory clearance, entrenched patterns of clinical practice and uncertainty with respect to third-party reimbursement. Moreover, innovations generally require a substantial investment in research and development before we can determine their commercial viability, and we may not have the financial resources necessary to fund the research, development and production.  In addition, even if we are able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of our products, these enhancements or new generations of products may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. Our success largely depends on our ability to attract, retain, develop and motivate our human capital, including our senior management, and on our ability to have meaningful succession plans in place to prepare for foreseen and unforeseen changes. Our future performance depends, in large part, on the continued skills, experiences, competencies and services of our senior management and other key talent, including our ability to attract, retain, develop and motivate our highly skilled employees, senior management, independent agents and distributors. Competition for talent in our business is 14 significant. Our ability to attract and retain key talent, in particular senior management, is dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions, our ability to offer competitive compensation packages and our ability to be perceived as a preferred place to work.  Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success; failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and orderly transitions involving key employees could hinder our business. Our restructuring programs may not be successful or we may not fully realize the expected cost savings and/or operating efficiencies from our restructuring initiatives. We have initiated a series of restructuring programs to reduce costs, improve efficiency, spin off certain businesses, and prioritize investments in higher-priority growth operations. Restructuring initiatives involve complex plans and actions that may include, or result in, workforce reductions, plant closures and/or consolidations, product portfolio rationalizations and asset impairments.  Additionally, as a result of restructuring initiatives, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge and/or inefficiencies during transitional periods. Restructuring initiatives present risks that may impair our ability to achieve anticipated operating enhancements and/or cost reductions, or otherwise harm our business, including higher than anticipated costs in implementing our restructuring programs, as well as management distraction.  For more information on our restructuring programs, see Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements. If we fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our restructuring programs, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to effectively integrate acquired businesses into our operations or achieve expected cost savings or profitability from our acquisitions. Our acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • unforeseen difficulties in integrating personnel and sales forces, operations, manufacturing, logistics, research and development, information technology, compliance, vendor management, communications, purchasing, accounting, marketing, administration and other systems and processes; • difficulties harmonizing and optimizing quality systems and operations; • diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; • unforeseen difficulties related to entering markets for which or geographic regions where we do not have prior experience; • potential loss of key employees; • unforeseen risks and liabilities associated with businesses acquired, including any unknown vulnerabilities in acquired technology or compromises of acquired data; and/or • inability to generate sufficient revenue or realize sufficient cost savings to offset acquisition or investment costs. As a result, if we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions properly, we might not achieve the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate.  These risks would likely be greater in the case of larger acquisitions. Interruption of manufacturing operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and our third-party manufacturers have manufacturing sites all over the world.  In some instances, however, the manufacturing of certain of our product lines is concentrated in one or a few plants which are concentrated in a single country or region.  Damage to one or more facilities from weather or natural disaster-related events, vulnerabilities in technology, cyber-attacks against our information systems or the information systems of our business partners (such as ransomware attacks), issues in manufacturing arising from failure to follow specific internal protocols and procedures, compliance concerns relating to the Quality System Regulation (“QSR”) and Good Manufacturing Practice requirements, equipment breakdown or malfunction, reductions in operations and/or worker absences, trade impediments, international sanctions, wars or other factors could adversely affect the ability to manufacture and distribute our products.  In the event of an interruption in manufacturing or involving a critical supplier, we may be unable to move quickly to alternate means of producing or acquiring affected products or to meet customer demand, and alternative sources of supply may not be adequate to accommodate sudden increases in demand.  We have experienced such interruptions previously, and we may experience such interruptions in the future.  In the event of a significant interruption, for example, as a result of our or a supplier’s failure to follow 15 regulatory protocols and procedures, we (or our suppliers) may experience lengthy delays in resuming production of affected products due primarily to the need for additional regulatory approvals.  The global supply chain has been and continues to be negatively impacted by a variety of macro factors which have, in part, resulted in challenges to meet end market demand in some instances.  As a result, we may experience lost sales, which we may be unable to recover, loss of market share, which we may be unable to recapture, and/or harm to our reputation, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Disruptions in the supply of the materials and components used in manufacturing our products or the sterilization of our products by us or third-party suppliers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We purchase many of the materials and components used in manufacturing our products from third-party suppliers, and we outsource some key manufacturing activities.  Certain of these materials and components and outsourced activities can only be obtained from a single source or a limited number of sources due to quality considerations, expertise, costs or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements.  In certain cases, we may not be able to establish additional or replacement suppliers for such materials or components or outsourced activities in a timely or cost effective manner, due to market constraints or as a result of FDA or other worldwide regulations that require validation of materials and components prior to their use in our products and the complex nature of our and many of our suppliers' manufacturing processes and the need for clearance or approval of significant changes by FDA and other worldwide regulatory bodies prior to implementation.  A reduction or interruption in the supply of materials or components used in manufacturing our products, such as due to loss of access to one or more suppliers; an inability to timely develop and validate alternative sources if required; or a significant increase in the price of such materials or components could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, many of our products require sterilization prior to sale, and we utilize a mix of internal resources and contract sterilizers to perform this service.  We also provide sterilization services to certain of our customers.  To the extent we or our contract sterilizers are unable to sterilize our products or provide sterilization services to our customers, whether caused by capacity, availability of materials for sterilization, and regulatory or other restrictions on the use of ethylene oxide or otherwise, we may be unable to transition to other contract sterilizers, sterilizer locations or sterilization methods in a timely or cost effective manner or at all, which could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, we are subject to the SEC’s rule regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as “conflict minerals” (tantalum, tin and tungsten (or their ores) and gold), which are mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries.  This rule could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of materials used in the manufacture of our products, which could adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability.  In addition, we are incurring additional costs to comply with this rule, including costs related to determining the source of any relevant minerals, metals and other materials used in our products.  We have a complex supply chain, and we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the minerals and metals used in our products through our due diligence procedures.  As a result, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders. We are dependent on sophisticated information technology and if we fail to effectively maintain or protect our information systems and data, including from cybersecurity events, our business could be adversely affected. We are dependent on sophisticated information technology for our products and infrastructure.  As a result of technology initiatives, expanding and evolving privacy and cybersecurity laws, changes in our system platforms and the ongoing integration of business acquisitions, we have been consolidating and integrating the number of systems we operate and have upgraded and expanded our information systems and cybersecurity capabilities.  In addition, some of our products and services incorporate software or information technology that collects data regarding patients and patient therapy, and some software and other products we provide to customers connect to our and third-party systems for maintenance and other purposes.  We also have outsourced elements of our operations to third parties (including suppliers, customers and other business partners), and, as a result, we manage a number of third parties who may now or could in the future have access to our confidential information, including, but not limited to, intellectual property, proprietary business information and personal information of patients, team members and customers (collectively “Confidential Information”). Our information systems, and those of third parties with whom we contract, require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards, changing threats and vulnerabilities, and the increasing need to protect data including patient, customer and Confidential Information.  In 16 addition, given their size and complexity, these systems are vulnerable to service interruptions and to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees, third-party suppliers and/or business partners, and from cyber-attacks by malicious third parties attempting to gain unauthorized access to our products, systems or Confidential Information.  Our use of artificial intelligence and machine learning in our infrastructure and products exposes us to new threats, risks and uncertainties, including with respect to changing laws and regulations regarding the use of such technologies. Like other large multi-national corporations, we regularly experience cyber attacks, and we expect to continue to be subject to such attacks.  These attacks may include phishing, state-sponsored cyber attacks, industrial espionage, insider threats, computer denial-of-service attacks, computer viruses, ransomware and other malware, payment fraud or other cyber incidents.  Evolving artificial intelligence and machine learning continue to improve the capabilities of cyber attackers.  In addition, as a result of our adoption of remote work arrangements in many positions, a significant number of our employees who are able to work remotely are doing so, and malicious cyber actors may increase efforts targeting remote workers, which exposes us to additional cybersecurity risks.  Our cybersecurity program, incident response efforts, business continuity procedures and disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities.  If we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could: • suffer a loss of access to or alteration of all or a portion of our Confidential Information; • have difficulty meeting our compliance requirements, including with respect to data retention and reporting, QMS, quality reporting or other requirements; • have difficulty developing new or enhanced products; • lose existing customers, suppliers and business partners; • have difficulty attracting new customers; • have problems in determining product cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing; • suffer outages or disruptions in our operations, supply chain, products and/or services, including our ZBEdge TM ecosystem; • have difficulty preventing, detecting, and controlling fraud; • have disputes with customers, physicians, other healthcare professionals and payors for our products; • have regulatory sanctions or penalties imposed; • incur increased operating expenses; • be subject to issues with product functionality that may result in a loss of data, risk to patient safety, field actions and/or product recalls; • incur expenses or lose revenues as a result of a data privacy breach; or • suffer other adverse consequences. We will continue to dedicate significant resources to protect against unauthorized access to our systems and work with government authorities to detect and reduce the risk of future cyber incidents; however, cyber-attacks are becoming more sophisticated, frequent and adaptive. Therefore, despite our efforts, we cannot assure that cybersecurity incidents or data breaches will not occur or that technology or information system issues will not arise in the future.  Any significant breakdown, intrusion, breach, interruption, corruption or destruction of these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Business and economic conditions have adversely impacted, and may, either alone or in combination with other risks, in the future adversely impact, our business, results of operations and financial condition, the nature and extent of which impacts are uncertain and unpredictable. Our operations expose us to risks from business interruptions that may arise from a variety of sources, including public health crises; supply chain disruptions; loss of or limitations on access to certain markets due to trade and tariff disputes and disruptions or national, regional and global conflicts; adverse economic developments; healthcare staffing challenges; government shutdowns; natural disasters; and other events that can, singly or in combination with other factors, adversely affect our business and financial results.  There can be no assurance that we will successfully manage risks, such as experienced during the COVID-19 pandemic, without adverse impacts to our business or financial results. Moreover, the occurrence of any one or more risks described in these Risk Factors or 17 otherwise may have unpredictable effects on other risks, our business, financial or operational results which may be comparable to, or more adverse than, those we experienced in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic. If we fail to retain the employees, independent agents and distributors upon whom we rely heavily to market our products, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. Our marketing success in the U.S. and abroad depends significantly upon our employees’, agents’ and distributors’ sales and service expertise in the marketplace.  Many of these employees, agents and distributors have developed professional relationships with existing and potential customers because of the agents’ detailed knowledge of products and instruments.  A loss of a significant number of our marketing employees, agents or distributors could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If third-party payors decline to reimburse our customers for our products or reduce reimbursement levels, the demand for our products may decline and our ability to sell our products profitably may be harmed.  In addition, we are subject to cost containment measures in the United States and other countries, resulting in pricing pressures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and cash flows. We sell our products and services to hospitals, doctors and other healthcare providers, which receive reimbursement for the healthcare services provided to their patients from third-party payors, such as domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs.  These third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a product or service used in a procedure was not in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication.  Third-party payors may also decline to reimburse for experimental procedures and products.  In addition, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services.  If third-party payors deny or decline reimbursement, reduce reimbursement levels or change reimbursement models for our products, demand for our products may decline, or we may experience increased pressure to reduce the prices of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Many customers of our products have formed group purchasing organizations in an effort to contain costs. Group purchasing organizations negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a group purchasing organization’s affiliated hospitals and other members. If we are not one of the providers selected by a group purchasing organization, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to purchase our products, and, if the group purchasing organization has negotiated a strict compliance contract for another manufacturer’s products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of the group purchasing organization for the duration of the contractual arrangement.  Our failure to respond to the cost-containment efforts of group purchasing organizations may cause us to lose market share to our competitors and could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Initiatives to limit the growth of general healthcare expenses and hospital costs are ongoing in the markets in which we do business, and we have experienced downward pressure on product pricing and other effects of healthcare reform in our international markets. These initiatives are sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector and include price regulation and competitive pricing. For example, China has implemented a volume-based procurement (“VBP”) process designed to reduce medical spending, which has in the past resulted in, and could in the future result in, reduced margins on covered devices and products, required renegotiation of distributor arrangements, and incurrence of inventory-related charges.  In cases where our product is not selected in VBP, sales of that product are substantially impacted.  Similarly, the Italian Public Administration has implemented a Pay Back Law to obtain reimbursement from the medical device industry to contribute to government overspending on medical devices beginning in 2015, which assessments we are challenging.  Additional cost reduction and recovery strategies are likely to be proposed in various jurisdictions, the effects of which are difficult to predict, but may have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Pricing pressure continues due to consolidation among healthcare providers, trends toward managed care, the shift toward governments becoming the primary payors of healthcare expenses, reductions in reimbursement levels and government laws and regulations relating to reimbursement and pricing generally. If key participants in government healthcare systems reduce the reimbursement levels for our products, including through regulatory changes, elections and other political changes, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. 18 Financial, Credit and Liquidity Risks We incurred substantial additional indebtedness in connection with previous mergers and acquisitions and may not be able to meet all of our debt obligations, and interest rate risk could adversely affect our indebtedness. We incurred substantial additional indebtedness in connection with previous mergers and acquisitions.  At December 31, 2023, our total indebtedness was $5.8 billion.  As of December 31, 2023, our debt service principal obligations (excluding interest, leases and equipment notes), during the next 12 months are expected to be $0.9 billion.  As a result of the increase in our debt, demands on our cash resources have increased; such demand would further amplify if we fund future mergers and acquisitions using debt financing.  Our current and future increased level of debt could, among other things: • require us to dedicate a large portion of our cash flow from operations to the servicing and repayment of our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures and other general corporate requirements; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures and other general corporate requirements; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • restrict our ability to make strategic investments, collaborations, acquisitions or dispositions or to exploit business opportunities; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; • adversely affect our credit rating, with the result that the cost of servicing our indebtedness might increase and our ability to obtain surety bonds could be impaired; • adversely affect the market price of our common stock; and • limit our ability to apply proceeds from a future offering or asset sale to purposes other than the servicing and repayment of debt. In addition, the interest rates applicable to certain of our debt obligations are based on a fluctuating rate of interest determined by reference to the Secure Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) or other externally-determined rates.  SOFR and such other rates have increased from recent lows, which has increased our cost of borrowing.  Any further increase in interest rates applicable to our debt obligations would increase our cost of borrowing and could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Changes in tax laws in countries in which we do business are expected to negatively impact our effective tax rate; further changes in tax laws may have a further negative impact. Changes in the tax laws and regulations of the jurisdictions where we do business, including an increase in tax rates or an adverse change in the treatment of an item of income or expense, could result in a material increase in our tax expense and/or tax payments, could increase tax uncertainty and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Tax law changes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we operate conforming to Pillar Two of the base erosion and profit shifting plan (“Pillar Two”) undertaken by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development will take effect in 2024. We expect the implementation and interpretation of Pillar Two across all jurisdictions where we do business will have an adverse effect on our effective tax rate, results of operations and cash flows.  These tax law changes require profits earned in such jurisdictions to be subject to a minimum 15 percent income tax rate. Currently, uncertainty exists regarding how the Pillar Two rules interact with existing national tax laws and whether such rules pertaining to the Undertaxed Profits Rule that will take effect in 2025 are consistent with existing tax treaty obligations. We may have additional tax liabilities as a result of examinations and audits. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and many foreign jurisdictions.  Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes.  In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.  We are regularly under audit by tax authorities.  Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals.  The results of 19 an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. If our independent agents and distributors are characterized as employees, we would be subject to additional tax and other liabilities. We structure our relationships with independent agents and distributors in a manner that we believe results in an independent contractor relationship, not an employee relationship. Although we believe that our independent agents and distributors are properly characterized as independent contractors, tax, labor or other regulatory authorities may in the future challenge our characterization of these relationships. Further, we have been subject to lawsuits challenging the characterization of these relationships. Changes in classification from independent contractor to employee can result in a change to various requirements associated with the payment of wages, tax withholding, and the provision of unemployment, health, and other traditional employer-employee related benefits. If regulatory authorities or state, federal or foreign courts were to determine our independent agents or distributors are employees and not independent contractors, we would be required to withhold income taxes, to withhold and pay social security, Medicare and similar taxes and to pay unemployment and other related payroll taxes, as well as provide other employer-employee related benefits. We would also be liable for unpaid past taxes and subject to penalties. As a result, any determination that our independent agents and distributors are our employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Future material impairments in the carrying value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, would negatively affect our operating results. Goodwill and intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets.  At December 31, 2023, we had $8.8 billion in goodwill and $4.9 billion of intangible assets.  The goodwill results from our acquisition activity and represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired.  We assess at least annually whether events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be recoverable.  As discussed further in Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements, in the fourth quarter of 2022, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $289.8 million as a result of, among other factors, changes in foreign currency exchange rates in our European-based currencies, inflation and a higher interest rate environment; and in the second quarter of 2022 and 2021, we recorded $3.0 million and $16.3 million, respectively, of in-process research and development (“IPR&D”) intangible asset impairments on certain IPR&D projects.  There were no impairment charges during the year ended December 31, 2023, but if the operating performance at one or more of our reporting units significantly declines, including if competing or alternative technologies or pharmacological treatments, emerge, if market conditions or future cash flow estimates for one or more of our businesses decline, or as a result of restructuring initiatives pursuant to which we reorganize our reporting units, we could be required to record additional impairment charges.  Any write-off of a material portion of our goodwill or unamortized intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations. The spinoff of ZimVie Inc. and the divestiture of our retained interest in ZimVie Inc. could result in substantial tax liability. We obtained Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) rulings and an opinion as to the tax-free nature of the spinoff under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  We subsequently obtained supplemental IRS rulings as to the tax-free nature of our divestiture of retained shares of ZimVie common stock following the spinoff, which divestiture completed in February 2023.  The IRS rulings and opinion are based, among other things, on various factual assumptions and representations we made.  If any of these assumptions or representations are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, reliance on the opinion and rulings may be jeopardized.  If the spinoff, or the subsequent divestiture of our retained interest in ZimVie, does not qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the resulting tax liability to us, to our stockholders and to ZimVie stockholders could be substantial. Global Operational Risks We conduct a significant amount of our sales and manufacturing activities outside of the U.S., which subjects us to additional business risks and may cause our profitability to decline due to increased costs. We sell our products in more than 100 countries and derived approximately 42 percent of our net sales in 2023 from outside the U.S.  We intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales internationally, including in emerging markets, which could expose us to additional risks associated with international sales and operations.  Our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: 20 • changes to trade restrictions and protection measures, new import or export requirements, new or increased tariffs, trade embargoes and sanctions and other trade barriers, which may prevent us from shipping products to or from a particular market, restrict our access to certain sources of raw materials and other inputs, increase our operating costs and disrupt our ability to collect payment for our products and services in particular markets; • changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs; • differences in and changes to foreign regulatory requirements, such as more stringent requirements for regulatory clearance of products; • differing local product preferences and product requirements; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • the effects of inflation, including the effects of different rates of inflation in different countries, on our costs and expenses, and the costs of our products; • diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the U.S.; • foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the U.S.; • complex data privacy and cybersecurity requirements and labor relations laws; • extraterritorial effects of U.S. laws such as the FCPA; • effects of foreign anti-corruption laws, such as the UK Bribery Act; • difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; • labor force instability; • increased tax liabilities under foreign tax laws or changes thereto; and • political, social and economic instability and uncertainty, including wars, other conflict and sovereign  debt issues. Violations of foreign laws or regulations could result in fines; criminal sanctions against us, our directors, officers, employees, agents or distributors; prohibitions or restrictions relating to the conduct of our business; and damage to our reputation. Wars and other conflicts may increase certain of these risks and may adversely affect our business and financial performance, including by limiting our ability to operate in, or export from, certain markets.  Losing access to such markets or to exports from such markets may have a material adverse effect on our business, and may limit our ability to operate, both in the affected market and globally. The effects of emerging, expanding and new conflicts, such as a possible expansion of the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, a possible expansion of conflicts in the Middle East, or a possible conflict involving China and Taiwan, may not be limited to the specific markets involved. Sanctions and other civil, political and economic effects of such conflicts are likely to have adverse impacts upon us.  For example, we produced implants and instruments in China that supported a significant portion of our global total profit in 2023; if trade restrictions or other barriers arose that limited our ability to export from China and we are unable to fully mitigate the risk or find alternative sources of supply, such trade restrictions could have a material and adverse effect on our sales and results of operations.  Additionally, other trade disruptions include supply chain continuity disruption; inflationary pressures and increased costs of raw materials and inputs; manufacturing or shipping delays; increased shipping costs and transit delays (such as experienced due to attacks on shipping transiting the Red Sea); and increased disruptions and delays affecting our ability to operate in and to collect payment for our products and services in particular markets. We are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which can increase our costs, cause our profitability to decline and expose us to counterparty risks. A substantial portion of our foreign revenues is generated in Europe and Japan.  The U.S. Dollar value of our foreign-generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations.  Significant increases in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to the Euro, the Japanese Yen, the Swiss Franc or other currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Although we address currency risk management through regular operating and financing activities, and, on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial instruments, those actions may not prove to be fully effective or may create additional financial obligations for us.  Further, if the counterparties to the derivative financial instrument transactions fail to honor their obligations due to financial distress or otherwise, we would be exposed to potential losses or the inability to recover anticipated gains from those transactions. 21 Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risks We are subject to complex and expensive laws and governmental regulations relating to the development, design, product standards, packaging, advertising, promotion, post-market surveillance, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products, non-compliance with which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our global regulatory environment is increasingly stringent, unpredictable and complex. The products and services we design, develop, manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other supranational, national, federal, regional, state and local governmental authorities.  The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and clearances to market these products can be costly and time consuming and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all.  Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals for future products or product enhancements, or loss of approval for current products, could result in delayed realization of product revenues or in substantial additional costs.  Emerging opportunities, including those presented by the use of machine learning and artificial intelligence in our current and future products, devices and services are expected to present new, complex and potentially inconsistent legal and regulatory requirements across the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under FDA regulations, the EU MDR and other supranational, national, federal, regional, state and local requirements.  These requirements relate to quality systems, recordkeeping, labeling, promotional and marketing requirements, adverse event reporting regulations and other matters, which are subject to continual review and are monitored rigorously through periodic inspections by regulators, which may result in observations (such as on FDA Form 483), and in some cases warning letters, that require corrective action or other forms of enforcement. Additionally, the availability of designated European notified body services to certify compliance with the new EU MDR requirements is limited, which may delay the marketing approval for some of our products under the EU MDR (and, potentially, the UK MDR). Furthermore, regulators strictly regulate the promotional claims that we may make about approved or cleared products. If a regulator were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, that any of our products are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, or that we have marketed or promoted a product for use other than as indicated in the product labelling approved by the regulator, the regulator may ban such products; detain or seize adulterated or misbranded products; order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of payment of such products; refuse to grant pending premarket approval applications; refuse to provide certificates for exports; require us to notify healthcare professionals and others that the products present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health; and subject us to fines, injunctions or other penalties.  The regulator may also impose operating restrictions, including a ceasing of operations at one or more facilities, enjoining and restraining certain violations of applicable law pertaining to our products, seizing our products, and/or assessing civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees or us. Regulators could also issue a corporate warning letter or a recidivist warning letter or negotiate the entry of a consent decree of permanent injunction with us, and/or recommend prosecution.  Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively manufacturing, marketing and selling our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, such as the International Standards Organization.  If we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our business could be harmed. If we fail to comply with healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The sales, marketing and pricing of products and relationships that medical products companies have with healthcare providers are under increased scrutiny around the world.  Our industry is subject to various laws and regulations pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including the False Claims Act, the Anti-Kickback Statute, the Stark law, the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and similar laws and regulations in the U.S. and around the world.  In addition, we are subject to various laws concerning anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters (including the FCPA), sales to countries or persons subject to economic sanctions and other matters affecting our international operations.  Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the U.S., exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Administration health programs.  These laws are administered by, among others, the DOJ, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of 22 Health and Human Services, the SEC, the OFAC, the Bureau of Industry and Security of the U.S. Department of Commerce and state attorneys general. If we fail to comply with data privacy and security laws and regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We process personal and personal health data in our business, particularly through our ZBEdge TM ecosystem.  In addition, some of our products and services incorporate software or information technology that processes patient health data for treatment, maintenance and other purposes.  Further, we obtain and process personal data related to our employees, individual business partners (such as physicians and consultants), and website visitors located around the world.  These data and information-focused activities carry additional risk. We are subject to laws and regulations that govern the collection, use, disclosure, transfer, storage, location, disposal, processing and protection of health-related, personal and other information.  The FDA has issued guidance to which we are subject concerning data security for medical devices. In addition to U.S. federal laws and regulations, a number of U.S. states have also enacted data privacy and security laws and regulations that govern the collection, use, disclosure, transfer, storage, disposal, and protection of personal information, such as social security numbers, medical and financial information, biometric data and other personal information. These laws and regulations may be more restrictive than, and not be preempted by, U.S. federal laws. The legislative and regulatory framework for privacy and data protection issues worldwide is rapidly evolving as countries continue to adopt privacy and data security laws that may apply to us, both because our operations are located in those countries and/or because we provide products and services to customers in those countries. In addition, certain of our suppliers, partners, affiliates and associates are subject to privacy, security and breach notification regulations established under these and other international, national, state and local laws.  We, and certain of our suppliers, partners, affiliates and associates, are also subject to reporting requirements relating to certain data breaches and cybersecurity events. The interpretation and enforcement of the laws and regulations described above are uncertain and subject to change, and we expect to incur substantial costs to monitor for and comply with changing and additional requirements. In addition, new and more stringent multinational, national and state privacy legislation and regulations are likely to be adopted. We cannot predict all the jurisdictions in which new legislation, regulation or enforcement might arise, the scope of such legislation, regulation and enforcement, or the potential impact to our business and operations of any such changes. Failure to comply with U.S. and international data protection laws and regulations, and the disclosure of any data or related breach, could result in government enforcement actions (which could include substantial civil and/or criminal penalties and injunctive relief), private litigation and/or adverse publicity and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Pending and future product liability claims and litigation could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations and impair our reputation. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices.  In the ordinary course of business, we are the subject of product liability lawsuits alleging that component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information resulted in an unsafe condition or injury to patients.  As discussed further in Note 21 to our consolidated financial statements, we are defending product liability lawsuits relating to the Durom ® Acetabular Component (“Durom Cup”), certain products within the M/L Taper and M/L Taper with Kinectiv ® Technology hip stems and Versys ® Femoral Head implants, and the M2a-Magnum TM hip system.  We are also currently defending a number of other product liability lawsuits and claims related to various other products.  Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, can be costly to defend.  Product liability lawsuits and claims, safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability to attract and retain customers. We are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights, and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in the payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and other proprietary rights against others. Claims of intellectual property infringement and litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights are commonplace in our industry and are frequently time consuming and costly.  At any given time, we may be involved as either plaintiff or defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time.  While it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent and other intellectual 23 property litigation, such litigation has in the past resulted in, and could in the future result in, our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and proprietary rights against others, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, finances and results of operations. Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology, processes, methodologies and information.  We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws and nondisclosure, license, assignment and confidentiality arrangements to establish, maintain and protect our proprietary rights, as well as the intellectual property rights of third parties whose assets we license.  However, the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights, and the rights of those from whom we license intellectual property, may not be adequate to prevent unauthorized use, misappropriation or theft of our intellectual property.  Further, our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in patents being issued to us, patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the future may be challenged or circumvented by competitors, and such patents may be found invalid, unenforceable or insufficiently broad to protect our technology or to provide us with any competitive advantage.  Third parties could obtain patents that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and the required licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all.  We also cannot be certain that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information. In addition, intellectual property laws differ in various jurisdictions in which we operate and are subject to change at any time, which could further restrict our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights.  In particular, a portion of our revenues is derived from jurisdictions where adequately protecting intellectual property rights may prove more challenging or impossible.  We may also not be able to detect unauthorized uses or take timely and effective steps to remedy unauthorized conduct.  To prevent or respond to unauthorized uses of our intellectual property, we might be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation or other proceedings and we may not ultimately prevail.  Any failure to establish, maintain or protect our intellectual property or proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We are involved in legal proceedings that may result in adverse outcomes. In addition to intellectual property and product liability claims and lawsuits, we are involved in various other litigation, claims and other proceedings that arise from time to time.  Although we believe there are substantial defenses in these matters, litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management’s view of these matters may change in the future.  Given the uncertain nature of legal proceedings generally, we are not able in all cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome.  We could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our financial results in any particular period. Risks Related to Our Organizational Documents and Jurisdiction of Incorporation Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could delay or prevent a change of control. Certain provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, our Restated By-Laws and the Delaware General Corporation Law may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, complicate, defer or prevent a merger, acquisition, tender offer, takeover attempt or other change of control transaction, including those that a stockholder might consider in its best interest, that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by our stockholders, or that may be considered beneficial by many of our stockholders.  As a result, our stockholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. Our Restated By-Laws designate certain Delaware courts as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees. Our Restated By-Laws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, a state court located within the State of Delaware (or, if no state court located in the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware) will be the sole and exclusive forum for any stockholder (including any beneficial owner) to bring certain actions against us or on behalf of the Company.  Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our common stock is deemed to have received notice of and consented to this provision.  This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and employees.  Alternatively, if a court were to find this choice of forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the 24 specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

On March 1, 2022, we completed the spinoff of our spine and dental businesses into ZimVie.  The historical results of our spine and dental businesses have been reflected as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements in our 2022 results through the date of the spinoff and in the prior year periods.  See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.  The following discussion and analysis is presented on a continuing operations basis unless otherwise noted. The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the corresponding notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Amounts reported in millions within this Annual Report on Form 10-K are computed based on the actual amounts.  As a result, the sum of the components may not equal the total amount reported in millions due to rounding.  In addition, certain columns and rows within tables may not sum to the totals due to the use of rounded numbers.  Percentages presented are calculated from the underlying unrounded amounts. The following discussion, analysis and comparisons generally focus on the operating results for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022.  Discussion, analysis and comparisons of the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. EXECUTIVE LEVEL OVERVIEW 2023 Financial Highlights In 2023, we experienced fewer disruptions to elective surgical procedures from the COVID-19 global pandemic as compared to 2022 when the Omicron variant and staffing shortages caused widespread deferrals of procedures.  In addition, improvements in our supply chain, procedure volume recovery from patients who deferred surgical procedures related to the pandemic, new product introductions and commercial execution have contributed to our net sales growth.  As a result, in 2023 our net sales increased by 6.5 percent compared to 2022.  Our net sales in 2023 were tempered by a negative 1.0 percent effect from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our net earnings from continuing operations were $1,024.0 million in 2023 compared to $290.2 million in 2022.  Our net earnings increased in 2023 driven by the higher net sales, favorable tax settlements and lower operating expenses.  Operating expenses declined primarily due to lower litigation-related, restructuring-related and quality remediation-related charges.  In addition, 2022 included $292.8 million of goodwill and intangible asset impairments, and a $116.6 million loss on our investment in ZimVie. 2024 Outlook We expect year-over-year revenue growth of mid-single digits in 2024 to be driven by a combination of market growth, new product introductions, commercial execution and continued improvements in product supply.  Based on foreign currency exchange rates at the end of 2023, we expect foreign currency to negatively affect year-over-year net sales by approximately 0.5 percent.  We estimate operating profit will increase in 2024 when compared to 2023 due to higher net sales, leverage from fixed operating expenses and savings from our restructuring plans.  However, we estimate these favorable items may be partially offset by higher intangible asset amortization and increased restructuring-related costs to implement our plans.  We estimate our net interest expense will increase slightly due to higher interest rates.  We expect our provision for income taxes will increase in 2024 when compared to 2023 due to the European Union adoption of Pillar Two and the non-reoccurrence of favorable tax settlements. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS We review sales by two geographies, the United States and International, and by the following product categories: Knees; Hips; S.E.T. (Sports Medicine, Extremities, Trauma, Craniomaxillofacial and Thoracic); and Other.  This sales analysis differs from our reportable operating segments, which are based upon our senior management organizational structure and how we allocate resources toward achieving operating profit goals.  We review sales by these geographies because the underlying market trends in any particular geography tend to be similar across product categories, because we primarily sell the same products in all geographies and many of our competitors publicly report in this manner.  Our business is seasonal in nature to some extent, as many of our products are used 29 in elective surgical procedures, which typically decline during the summer months and can increase at the end of the year once annual deductibles have been met on health insurance plans. Net Sales by Geography The following table presents net sales by geography and the percentage changes (dollars in millions): Net Sales by Product Category The following table presents net sales by product category and the percentage changes (dollars in millions): The following table presents net sales by product category by geography for our Knees and Hips product categories (dollars in millions): Demand (Volume/Mix) Trends Changes in volume and mix of product sales had positive effects of 8.1 percent and 7.6 percent on year-over-year sales during the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.  We saw recovery of elective surgical procedures across most of our major markets driving volume growth.  In addition, new product introductions and commercial execution contributed positively to volume and mix trends. Pricing Trends Global selling prices had negative effects of 0.6 percent and 1.0 percent on year-over-year sales during 2023 and 2022, respectively.  The majority of countries in which we operate continue to experience pricing pressure from local hospitals, health systems, and governmental healthcare cost containment efforts.  However, we have had some success in reducing the negative effects of pricing due to internal initiatives and being able to pass some inflationary impacts on to customers. 30 Foreign Currency Exchange Rates In 2023 and 2022, changes in foreign currency exchange rates had negative effects of 1.0 percent and 5.0 percent, respectively, on year-over-year sales. Geography The 6.9 percent net sales growth in the U.S. in 2023 when compared to 2022 was primarily driven by recovery in surgical procedures as COVID-19 caused fewer disruptions, especially in the Knees and Hips categories.  Internationally, net sales increased by 6.1 percent in 2023 when compared to 2022.  The 2023 International net sales increase was similarly driven by recovery in surgical procedures as COVID-19 caused fewer disruptions across most of our major markets, but volume increases were partially offset by the negative impacts of changes in foreign currency exchange rates of 2.1 percent. Product Categories In 2023, our Knees and Hips net sales increased by 9.4 percent and 3.8 percent, respectively, when compared to 2022 due to the recovery in elective surgical procedures, improvements in our supply chain and new product introductions.  Changes in foreign currency exchange rates had negative effects of 0.8 percent and 1.3 percent on 2023 Knees and Hips net sales, respectively.  S.E.T. net sales increased by 3.3 percent in 2023 when compared to 2022.  Changes in foreign currency exchange rates had a negative effect of 0.5 percent on 2023 S.E.T. net sales.   S.E.T. net sales growth was primarily driven by growth in CMFT, sports medicine and upper extremities products of 12.9 percent, 10.6 percent and 9.4 percent, respectively, partially offset by a 5.5 percent decline in trauma.  S.E.T.’s performance was also negatively impacted by unfavorable changes in reimbursement for certain restorative therapy products.  Other product category net sales increased by 11.6 percent in 2023 when compared to 2022 primarily due to higher net sales for our ROSA robot. Expenses as a Percent of Net Sales Cost of Products Sold and Intangible Asset Amortization Cost of products sold, excluding intangible asset amortization, increased in 2023 compared to 2022 primarily due to higher sales.  However, as a percentage of net sales costs of products sold, excluding intangible asset amortization, declined in 2023 compared to 2022.  This decline was primarily due to volume and mix shift to higher margin products and markets, higher hedge gains recognized in the current year period as part of our hedging program and lower royalty expense.  The reduction in royalty expense was partially the result of agreements we entered into to acquire intellectual property through the buyout of certain licensing arrangements, which are recognized as intangible assets and result in additional intangible asset amortization expense instead of royalty expense.  These favorable items were partially offset by higher excess and obsolete inventory charges, inflationary cost pressures and lower average selling prices. 31 Intangible asset amortization expense increased in 2023 when compared to 2022 due to acquisitions we made in 2023, including intangible assets acquired from the buyout of certain royalty-related licensing agreements as described above.  However, as a percentage of net sales intangible asset amortization in 2023 was similar to 2022 as amortization expense and net sales increased by a similar percentage. We calculate gross profit as net sales minus cost of products sold and intangible asset amortization.  Our gross margin percentage is gross profit divided by net sales.  The following table sets forth the factors that contributed to the gross margin changes in each of 2023 and 2022 compared to the prior year: Operating Expenses Research & development (“R&D”) expenses increased in both amount and as a percentage of net sales in 2023 compared to 2022.  The increases were driven by higher personnel-related costs, higher spending on our initial compliance with the European Union Medical Device Regulation, additional R&D expenses from acquisitions we made in 2023, and other R&D investments. Selling, general & administrative (“SG&A”) expenses increased in amount, but decreased as a percentage of net sales in 2023 compared to 2022.  The increase in expenses was due to selling and distribution costs that are variable expenses which increase as net sales increase.  Additionally, personnel-related costs were higher due to additional headcount investments and annual merit increases, and travel and entertainment costs were higher as we have increased these activities from lower pandemic levels.  These higher costs were partially offset by lower litigation-related charges in 2023, lower bad debt charges in 2023 as we recognized higher bad debt charges in 2022 that were partially related to the beginning of the Russia/Ukraine conflict, lower share-based compensation expense in 2023 due to the forfeiture of awards related to employee departures, and a gain recognized in 2023 from the sale of an asset. In 2023, we did not recognize any goodwill or intangible asset impairment charges.  In 2022, we recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $289.8 million related to our EMEA reporting unit.  In 2022 and 2021, we recognized intangible asset impairment charges of $3.0 million and $16.3 million, respectively, related to IPR&D projects that we discontinued.  For more information regarding these charges, see Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements. In December of 2023, 2021 and 2019, we initiated global restructuring programs (the “2023 Restructuring Plan”, the “2021 Restructuring Plan” and the “2019 Restructuring Plan”, respectively).  The 2023 Restructuring Plan is intended to further streamline the organization, to better align it with our go-to-market strategies and to reduce costs across the organization.  The 2021 Restructuring Plan is intended to further reduce costs and to reorganize our global operations in preparation for the spinoff of ZimVie.  The 2019 Restructuring Plan has an objective of reducing costs to allow us to invest in higher priority growth opportunities.  We also have other cost reduction and optimization initiatives that have the goal of reducing costs across the organization.  We recognized expenses of $151.9 million and $191.6 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively, primarily related to employee termination benefits, sales agent contract terminations, and consulting and project management expenses associated with these programs.  The expenses were higher in 2022 when compared to 2023 primarily due to additional expenses related to the 2021 Restructuring Plan that had just been initiated at the end of 2021.  We expect restructuring and other cost reduction initiatives expense to increase in 2024 as we further implement our 2023 Restructuring Plan.  For more information regarding these expenses, see Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements. 32 In 2023, we did not recognize any significant quality remediation expenses as we completed our remediation milestones in late 2022 that addressed inspectional observations on Form 483 and a warning letter issued by the FDA at our Warsaw North Campus facility, among other matters.  This warning letter was resolved in late 2023. Acquisition, integration, divestiture and related expenses relate to acquisitions made in 2023 and 2022, as well as costs related to our separation with ZimVie.  The increase in these expenses in 2023 was primarily due to higher contingent consideration charges from our various acquisitions. Other (Expense) Income, net, Interest Expense, net, and Income Taxes In 2023, we incurred a loss of $9.3 million in our other (expense) income, net compared to a loss of $128.0 million in 2022.  The year-over-year change was primarily due to a loss of $116.6 million recognized in 2022 related to our investment in ZimVie, while in 2023 we recognized a gain of $2.5 million prior to disposing of our ZimVie shares in February 2023. Interest expense, net, increased in 2023 when compared to 2022, primarily from higher interest rates on borrowings in 2023.  In addition, in 2023 we incurred losses of $38.9 million on our fixed-to-variable interest rate swaps compared to losses of $4.0 million in 2022. Our effective tax rate (“ETR”) on earnings from continuing operations before income taxes was 4.0 percent and 27.9 percent for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.  In 2023, the ETR was primarily driven by unrecognized tax benefits determined to be effectively settled during 2023.  In 2022, the ETR was primarily driven by the $289.8 million goodwill impairment charge and the $116.6 million loss on our investment in ZimVie, which have no corresponding tax benefits, partially offset by favorable tax settlements and finalization of Switzerland's Federal Act on Tax Reform and AHV Financing (“TRAF”) step-up. Absent discrete tax events, we expect our future ETR will be lower than the U.S. corporate income tax rate of 21.0 percent due to our mix of earnings between U.S. and foreign locations, which have lower corporate income tax rates.  Our ETR in future periods could also potentially be impacted by: changes in our mix of pre-tax earnings; changes in tax rates, tax laws or their interpretation, including the European Union adoption of Pillar Two proposals which will begin to take effect in 2024; the outcome of various federal, state and foreign audits, appeals, and litigation; and the expiration of certain statutes of limitations.  Currently, we cannot reasonably estimate the impact of all these items on our financial results. See Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on our income taxes. Segment Operating Profit Americas In the Americas, operating profit increased, but operating profit as a percentage of net sales decreased, in 2023  compared to 2022.  The increase in operating profit in 2023 was primarily due to higher net sales driven by continued recovery of elective surgical procedures and new product introductions.  However, operating profit as a percentage of net sales decreased in 2023 due to higher carrying expenses from inventory at consigned locations, and continued investments in R&D, including personnel-related costs, which were partially offset by lower royalty expenses as a result of agreements we entered into to acquire intellectual property through the buyout of certain licensing arrangements. EMEA In EMEA, operating profit and operating profit as a percentage of net sales increased in 2023 when compared to 2022.  The increases were due to higher net sales driven by continued recovery of elective surgical procedures and 33 improved pricing, lower bad debt charges and operating profit leverage from certain costs that do not increase as net sales increase. Asia Pacific In Asia Pacific, operating profit and operating profit as a percentage of net sales increased in 2023 when compared to 2022.  In Asia Pacific, changes in foreign currency exchange rates have had a larger impact on our results than in our other operating segments.  While net sales declined in 2023 when compared to 2022 due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, the negative net sales impact was partially offset by higher hedge gains recognized in 2023 from our hedging program.  As a result, net sales volume growth and operating leverage from certain costs that do not increase as net sales increase resulted in operating profit and operating profit as a percentage of sales increasing in 2023. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of December 31, 2023, we had $415.8 million in cash and cash equivalents.  In addition, we had $1.0 billion available to borrow under a 364-day revolving credit agreement that matures on July 5, 2024, and $1.5 billion available under a five-year revolving facility that matures on July 7, 2028.  The terms of the 364-day revolving credit agreement and the five-year revolving facility are described further in Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. We believe that cash flows from operations, our cash and cash equivalents on hand, and available borrowings under our revolving credit facilities will be sufficient to meet our ongoing liquidity requirements for at least the next twelve months.  However, it is possible our needs may change.  Further, there can be no assurance that, if needed, we will be able to secure additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. Sources of Liquidity Cash flows provided by operating activities from continuing operations were $1,581.6 million in 2023 compared to $1,356.2 million in 2022.  The increase in 2023 was primarily driven by higher earnings, lower restructuring-related payments and lower tax payments.  These favorable items were partially offset by higher investments in inventory in 2023 when compared to 2022, as well as higher bonus payments in 2023. Cash flows used in investing activities from continuing operations were $778.9 million in 2023 compared to $522.0 million in 2022.  Instrument and property, plant and equipment additions reflected ongoing investments in our product portfolio, including new product introductions, optimization of our manufacturing and logistics networks, investments in enterprise resource planning software and a new corporate jet.  In addition, in 2023 we paid $134.9 million related to acquisitions and $86.4 million to acquire intellectual property through the buyout of certain licensing arrangements. Cash flows used in financing activities from continuing operations were $763.5 million in 2023 compared to $775.7 million in 2022.  In 2023, we used the proceeds from draws on our existing credit facilities, along with cash on hand, to repurchase $692.2 million of our common stock.  We issued senior notes for $499.8 million and used those proceeds to repay amounts outstanding under our existing credit facilities and for general corporate purposes, such that we repaid a net $325.0 million on our various revolving credit facilities and $120.2 million of other debt obligations that were due in the first quarter of 2023. We place our cash and cash equivalents in highly-rated financial institutions and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one entity.  We invest only in high-quality financial instruments in accordance with our internal investment policy. As of December 31, 2023, $343.4 million of our cash and cash equivalents were held in jurisdictions outside of the U.S.  Of this amount, $55.0 million is denominated in U.S. Dollars and, therefore, bears no foreign currency translation risk.  The remaining amount is denominated in currencies of the various countries where we operate. As discussed in Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements, we generally intend to limit distributions such that they would not result in significant U.S. tax costs. Material Cash Requirements from Known Contractual and Other Obligations At December 31, 2023, we had outstanding debt of $5,767.9 million, of which $900.0 million was classified as current debt.  Of our current debt, $850.0 million of senior notes mature on November 22, 2024 and the remaining $50.0 million is outstanding under an uncommitted credit facility which we expect to repay during 2024.  We 34 believe we can satisfy these debt obligations with cash generated from our operations, by issuing new debt and/or by borrowing on our committed revolving credit facilities. For additional information on our debt, including types of debt, maturity dates, interest rates, debt covenants and available revolving credit facilities, see Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. In March, May, August and December 2023, our Board of Directors declared cash dividends of $0.24 per share.  We expect to continue paying cash dividends on a quarterly basis; however, future dividends are subject to approval of the Board of Directors and may be adjusted as business needs or market conditions change. In February 2016, our Board of Directors authorized a $1.0 billion share repurchase program effective March 1, 2016, with no expiration date.  In 2023, we executed share repurchases to return cash to investors as well as to limit ownership dilution from the issuance of common stock under our share-based compensation programs and in connection with our acquisition of Embody, Inc.  As of December 31, 2023, $155.8 million remained authorized under this program.  An additional 0.5 million shares were repurchased in early January 2024 for $64.1 million. As discussed in Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, we are executing on a 2023 Restructuring Plan, a 2021 Restructuring Plan and a 2019 Restructuring Plan.  The 2023 Restructuring Plan along with other related initiatives is expected to result in total pre-tax charges of $120 million to $135 million by the end of 2025, of which approximately $13 million was incurred through December 31, 2023.  We expect to reduce gross annual pre-tax operating expenses by $175 million to $200 million relative to the 2023 baseline expenses by the end of 2025 as program benefits under the 2023 Restructuring Plan are realized.  The 2021 Restructuring Plan is expected to result in total pre-tax restructuring charges of approximately $180 million by the end of 2024, of which approximately $170 million was incurred through December 31, 2023.  We expect to reduce gross annual pre-tax operating expenses by approximately $190 million relative to the 2021 baseline expenses by the end of 2024 as program benefits under the 2021 Restructuring Plan are realized.  The 2019 Restructuring Plan is expected to result in total pre-tax restructuring charges of approximately $370 million by the end of 2025, of which approximately $320 million was incurred through December 31, 2023.  In our original estimates, we expected to reduce gross annual pre-tax operating expenses by approximately $180 million to $280 million relative to the 2019 baseline expenses by the end of 2023 as benefits under the 2019 Restructuring Plan were realized.  Our latest estimates indicate that we will be near the low end of that range, and the full benefits will not be realized until we complete the closure of a manufacturing facility, which is expected of occur in 2025. As discussed in Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements, the IRS has issued proposed adjustments for years 2010 through 2012, for years 2013 through 2015, and for years 2016 through 2019.  We have disputed these proposed adjustments and intend to continue to vigorously defend our positions.  Although the ultimate timing for resolution of the disputed tax issues is uncertain, future payments may be significant to our operating cash flows. Under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, we have a $206.2 million liability remaining from a one-time tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of post-1986 untaxed foreign earnings and profits (“transition tax”) for the deemed repatriation of unremitted foreign earnings. As of December, 31, 2023, $51.6 and $154.6 million of this amount is recorded in current income tax liabilities and non-current income tax liabilities, respectively, on our consolidated balance sheet. As discussed in Note 21 to our consolidated financial statements, we are involved in various litigation matters.  We estimate the total liabilities for all litigation matters was $244.1 million as of December 31, 2023.  We expect to pay these liabilities over the next few years. In the normal course of business, we enter into purchase commitments, primarily related to raw materials.  However, we do not believe these purchase commitments are material to the overall standing of our business or our liquidity. We have entered into development, distribution and other contractual arrangements that may result in future payments dependent upon various events such as the achievement of certain product R&D milestones, sales milestones, or exclusive rights to distribute a product.  These estimated payments related to these agreements could range from $0 to $440 million. 35 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The preparation of our financial statements is affected by the selection and application of accounting policies and methods, and also requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Critical accounting estimates are those that involve a significant level of estimation uncertainty and have had or are reasonably likely to have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We believe that the accounting estimates and assumptions described below involve significant subjectivity and judgment, and changes to such estimates or assumptions could have a material impact on our financial condition or operating results. Excess Inventory and Instruments - We must determine as of each balance sheet date how much, if any, of our inventory may ultimately prove to be unsaleable or unsaleable at our carrying cost.  Similarly, we must also determine if instruments on hand will be put to productive use or remain undeployed as a result of excess supply.  Accordingly, inventory and instruments are written down to their net realizable value.  To determine the appropriate net realizable value, we evaluate current stock levels in relation to historical and expected patterns of demand for all of our products and instrument systems and components.  The basis for the determination is generally the same for all inventory and instrument items and categories except for work‑in‑process inventory, which is recorded at cost.  Obsolete or discontinued items are generally destroyed and completely written off.  Management evaluates the need for changes to the net realizable values of inventory and instruments based on market conditions, competitive offerings and other factors on a regular basis. Income Taxes - Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities and reserves for unrecognized tax benefits reflect management’s best assessment of estimated future taxes to be paid.  We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions.  Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining the consolidated income tax expense. We estimate income tax expense and income tax liabilities and assets by taxable jurisdiction.  Realization of deferred tax assets in each taxable jurisdiction is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income sufficient to realize the benefits.  We evaluate deferred tax assets on an ongoing basis and provide valuation allowances unless we determine it is “more likely than not” that the deferred tax benefit will be realized. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in numerous jurisdictions across our global operations.  We are subject to regulatory review or audit in virtually all of those jurisdictions and those reviews and audits may require extended periods of time to resolve. We record our income tax provisions based on our knowledge of all relevant facts and circumstances, including existing tax laws, our experience with previous settlement agreements, the status of current examinations and our understanding of how the tax authorities view certain relevant industry and commercial matters. We recognize tax liabilities in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) guidance on income taxes and we adjust these liabilities when our judgment changes as a result of the evaluation of new information not previously available.  Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities.  These differences will be reflected as increases or decreases to income tax expense in the period in which they are determined. Commitments and Contingencies - We are involved in various ongoing proceedings, legal actions and claims, including product liability, intellectual property, stockholder matters, tax disputes, commercial disputes, employment matters, whistleblower and qui tam claims and investigations, governmental proceedings and investigations, and other legal matters that arise in the normal course of our business.  We establish liabilities for loss contingencies when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.  Accruals for product liability and other claims are established with the assistance of internal and external legal counsel based on current information and historical settlement information for claims, related legal fees and for claims incurred but not reported. Goodwill and Intangible Assets - We evaluate the carrying value of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets annually, or whenever events or circumstances indicate that the fair value is below its carrying amount.  We evaluate the carrying value of finite life intangible assets whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may 36 not be recoverable.  Significant assumptions are required to estimate the fair value of goodwill and intangible assets, most notably estimated future cash flows generated by these assets and risk-adjusted discount rates.  As such, these fair value measurements use significant unobservable inputs.  Changes to these assumptions could require us to record impairment charges on these assets. We have three reporting units with goodwill assigned to them.  During our annual goodwill impairment testing in the fourth quarter of 2023, for two of these reporting units their estimated fair values exceeded their carrying values by more than 50 percent.  We estimated the fair value of these reporting units using the income and market approaches.  Fair value under the income approach was determined by discounting to present value the estimated future cash flows of the reporting unit.  Fair value under the market approach utilized the guideline public company methodology, which uses valuation indicators determined from other businesses that are similar to our reporting unit.  We performed a qualitative test on the other reporting unit and concluded it was more likely than not the fair value of this reporting unit exceeded its carrying value. Future impairment in our reporting units could occur if the estimates used in the income and market approaches change.  If our estimates of profitability in the reporting unit decline, the fair value estimate under the income approach will decline.  Additionally, changes in the broader economic environment could cause changes to our estimated discount rates and comparable company valuation indicators, which may impact our estimated fair values.  Further, changes in foreign currency exchange rates could increase the cost of procuring inventory and services from foreign suppliers, which could reduce reporting unit profitability. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for information on how recent accounting pronouncements have affected or may affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.