********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

We operate in a rapidly changing economic and technological environment that presents numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict.  Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be impacted by a number of factors.  In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially harm our business, financial condition or results of operations, including causing our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.  The following list of significant risk factors is not all-inclusive or necessarily in order of importance.  Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may materially adversely affect us in future periods.  You should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our securities. Risks Related to our Business, Operations and Strategy T he COVID-19 pandemic has adversely impacted, and continues to pose risks to, our business, results of operations and financial condition, the nature and extent of which are highly uncertain and remain unpredictable. Our global operations expose us to risks associated with public health crises and outbreaks of epidemic, pandemic, or contagious diseases, such as COVID-19.  We continue to experience a decline in elective surgical procedures globally due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  In the third and fourth quarters of 2021, the highly transmissible Delta and Omicron variants resulted in further deferrals of elective surgical procedures, and we believe that staffing shortages at hospitals also contributed to the deferral of such procedures. We expect these declines to continue for the duration of the pandemic, and they may be further impacted by COVID-19 variants and resurgences. The COVID-19 global pandemic has had, and we expect it to continue to have, an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  Our net sales have not returned to pre-pandemic levels. It is not certain when our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows will return to pre-pandemic levels. 15 Deferral of elective surgical procedures has caused us to experience certain of the following , and we may experience other of the following, among other potential negative outcomes : COVID-19 and the current financial, economic and capital markets environment, and future developments in these and other areas, present material uncertainty and risk with respect to our performance, financial condition, volume of business, results of operations and cash flows. Our restructuring program may not be successful or we may not fully realize the expected cost savings and/or operating efficiencies from our restructuring initiatives. In December 2019, our Board of Directors approved, and we initiated, a global restructuring program (the “2019 Restructuring Plan”) with an objective of reducing costs to allow us to further invest in higher priority growth opportunities, which program is ongoing.  In December 2021, our management also initiated a global restructuring program (the “2021 Restructuring Plan”) to reorganize our operations in preparation for the planned spinoff of ZimVie with an objective of reducing costs.  Restructuring initiatives involve complex plans and actions that may include, or result in, workforce reductions, global plant closures and/or consolidations, product portfolio rationalizations and asset impairments.  Additionally, as a result of restructuring initiatives, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge and/or inefficiencies during transitional periods.  Restructuring initiatives present significant risks that may impair our ability to achieve anticipated operating enhancements and/or cost reductions, or otherwise harm our business, including higher than anticipated costs in implementing our restructuring program, as well as management distraction.  For more information on our restructuring program, see Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. If we fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of restructuring, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our success largely depends on the strength of our talent, including our senior management, and ensuring we have meaningful succession plans in place. We may not be able to attract, retain and develop the highly skilled employees we need to support our business, which could harm our business. Our future performance depends, in large part, on the continued skills, experiences, competencies and services of our senior management and other key talent, including our ability to attract, retain, develop and motivate key talent. Competition for talent in the various geographies and business segments in which we operate is significant. Our ability to attract and retain key talent, in particular senior management, will be dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions and our ability to offer competitive compensation packages. There is no guarantee that we will have the continued service of key employees who we rely upon to execute our business strategy and identify and pursue strategic opportunities and initiatives. The loss of the services of any of our senior management or other key talent, or our inability to attract highly qualified senior management and other key talent, could harm our business. In particular, we may have to incur costs to replace senior officers or other key employees who leave, and our ability to execute our business strategy could be impaired if we are unable to replace such persons in a timely manner. Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and orderly transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. Further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully integrate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 16 We may not be able to effectively integrate acquired businesses into our operations or achieve expected cost savings or profitability from our acquisitions. Our acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: As a result, if we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions properly, we might not achieve the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate.  These risks would likely be greater in the case of larger acquisitions. The planned spinoff of our Spine and Dental businesses may not be completed on the terms or timeline currently contemplated, if at all, and may not achieve the intended results. As previously announced, we plan to spin off our Spine and Dental businesses to form ZimVie Inc., a new and independent, publicly traded company (“ZimVie”) through a tax-free distribution to our stockholders of publicly traded stock in ZimVie.  Unanticipated developments could delay, prevent or otherwise adversely affect the planned spinoff.  Therefore, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to complete the spinoff on the terms or on the timeline that we announced, or at all. We expect the completion of the spinoff to continue to require significant expenses and management time and effort. We will have continuing obligations to ZimVie after the completion of the spinoff, which may cause us to incur additional costs. The spinoff will also require modifications to our systems and processes used to operate our business.  We may experience delays, increased costs and other difficulties related to these modifications during or following the spinoff, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Following the spinoff, we will be a smaller, less diversified company with a narrower business focus and may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, which could adversely affect our operating results.  We may also experience increased difficulties in attracting, retaining and motivating employees during the pendency of the spinoff and following its completion, which could harm our business. Further, if the spinoff is completed, the anticipated benefits and synergies of the transaction, strategic and competitive advantages of each company, and future growth and other opportunities for each company may not be realized within the expected time periods or at all . Failure to implement the spinoff effectively could also result in a lower value to our company and our stockholders. The planned spinoff, and any subsequent divestiture of our retained interest in ZimVie, could result in substantial tax liability. We obtained an Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) ruling, and we intend to obtain an opinion as to the tax-free nature of the spinoff under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  The IRS ruling is, and the opinion will be, based, among other things, on various factual assumptions and representations we will make.  If any of these assumptions or representations are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, reliance on the opinion and ruling may be jeopardized. If the spinoff does not qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the resulting tax liability to us, to our stockholders and to ZimVie stockholders could be substantial. We have announced we intend to retain 19.7% of the outstanding shares of ZimVie common stock upon the spinoff and to divest these shares after the spinoff in a tax-efficient manner.  There can be no assurance that any such divestiture will occur, will occur at a time or times favorable to us, or will occur at prices or on terms favorable to us.  Additionally, there can be no assurance that any such divestiture achieves a desired or any favorable tax 17 treatment.  If the divesture does not achieve a favorable tax treatment, the resulting tax liability to us, to our stockholders, and to ZimVie stockholders could be substantial. Interruption of manufacturing operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and our third-party manufacturers have manufacturing sites all over the world.  In some instances, however, the manufacturing of certain of our product lines is concentrated in one or more plants.  Damage to one or more facilities from weather or natural disaster-related events, vulnerabilities in technology, cyber-attacks against our information systems or the information systems of our business partners (such as ransomware attacks), or issues in manufacturing arising from failure to follow specific internal protocols and procedures, compliance concerns relating to the QSR and Good Manufacturing Practice requirements, equipment breakdown or malfunction, reductions in operations and/or worker absences due to the COVID-19 pandemic or other health epidemics (or local, state, or national reactions to such epidemics), or other factors could adversely affect the ability to manufacture our products.  In the event of an interruption in manufacturing, we may be unable to move quickly to alternate means of producing affected products or to meet customer demand.  We have experienced such interruptions due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and we may experience such interruptions in the future.  In the event of a significant interruption, for example, as a result of a failure to follow regulatory protocols and procedures, we may experience lengthy delays in resuming production of affected products due primarily to the need for regulatory approvals.  As a result, we may experience loss of market share, which we may be unable to recapture, and harm to our reputation, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Disruptions in the supply of the materials and components used in manufacturing our products or the sterilization of our products by third-party suppliers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We purchase many of the materials and components used in manufacturing our products from third-party suppliers and we outsource some key manufacturing activities.  Certain of these materials and components and outsourced activities can only be obtained from a single source or a limited number of sources due to quality considerations, expertise, costs or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements.  In certain cases, we may not be able to establish additional or replacement suppliers for such materials or components or outsourced activities in a timely or cost effective manner, largely as a result of FDA and other worldwide regulations that require validation of materials and components prior to their use in our products and the complex nature of our and many of our suppliers' manufacturing processes and the need for clearance or approval of significant changes by worldwide regulatory bodies prior to implementation .  A reduction or interruption in the supply of materials or components used in manufacturing our products , such as due to one or more suppliers experiencing reductions in operations and/or worker absences due to the COVID-19 pandemic or other health epidemics ; an inability to timely develop and validate alternative sources if required; or a significant increase in the price of such materials or components could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, many of our products require sterilization prior to sale and we utilize a mix of internal resources and contract sterilizers to perform this service.  To the extent we or our contract sterilizers are unable to sterilize our products, whether due to capacity, availability of materials for sterilization, regulatory or other constraints, including federal and state regulations on the use of ethylene oxide, or reductions in operations and/or worker absences due to the COVID-19 pandemic or other health epidemics, we may be unable to transition to other contract sterilizers, sterilizer locations or sterilization methods in a timely or cost effective manner or at all, which could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, we are subject to the SEC’s rule regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as “conflict minerals” (tantalum, tin and tungsten (or their ores) and gold), which are mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries.  This rule could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of materials used in the manufacture of our products, which could adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability.  In addition, we are incurring additional costs to comply with this rule, including costs related to determining the source of any relevant minerals and metals used in our products.  We have a complex supply chain and we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the minerals and metals used in our products through our due diligence procedures.  As a result, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders. 18 We are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and if we fail to effectively maintain or protect our information systems or data, including from data breaches, our business could be adversely affected. We are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology for our products and infrastructure.  As a result of technology initiatives, expanding privacy and cybersecurity laws, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions, we have been consolidating and integrating the number of systems we operate and have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities.  In addition, some of our products and services incorporate software or information technology that collects data regarding patients and patient therapy, and some products or software we provide to customers connect to our systems for maintenance and other purposes.  We also have outsourced elements of our operations to third parties, and, as a result, we manage a number of third-party suppliers who may or could have access to our confidential information, including, but not limited to, intellectual property, proprietary business information and personal information of patients, employees and customers (collectively “Confidential Information”). Our information systems, and those of third-party suppliers with whom we contract, require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards, changing threats and vulnerabilities, and the increasing need to protect patient and customer information.  In addition, given their size and complexity, these systems could be vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees, third-party vendors and/or business partners, or from cyber-attacks by malicious third parties attempting to gain unauthorized access to our products, systems or Confidential Information. Like other large multi-national corporations, we have experienced instances of successful phishing attacks on our email systems and expect to be subject to similar attacks in the future. We also are subject to other cyber-attacks, including state-sponsored cyber-attacks, industrial espionage, insider threats, computer denial-of-service attacks, computer viruses, ransomware and other malware, payment fraud or other cyber incidents.  In addition, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, a significant number of our employees who are able to work remotely are doing so, and malicious cyber actors may increase malware campaigns and phishing emails targeting teleworkers, preying on the uncertainties surrounding COVID-19, which exposes us to additional cybersecurity risks.  Our incident response efforts, business continuity procedures and disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities.  If we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could: While we have invested heavily in the protection of our data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our activities related to consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, protecting and enhancing our systems and implementing new systems will be successful.  We will continue to dedicate significant resources to protect against unauthorized access to our systems and work with government authorities to detect and reduce the risk of future cyber incidents; however, cyber-attacks are becoming more sophisticated, frequent and adaptive. Therefore, despite our efforts, we cannot assure that cyber-attacks or data breaches will not occur or that systems issues will not arise in the future.  Any significant breakdown, intrusion, breach, interruption, corruption or destruction of these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition . Our success depends on our ability to effectively develop and market our products against those of our competitors. We operate in a highly competitive environment.  Our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by one or more of our present or future competitors or by other therapies, 19 including biological therapies .  To remain competitive, we must continue to develop and acquire new products and technologies and improve existing products and technologies.  Competition is primarily on the basis of: In markets outside of the U.S., other factors influence competition as well, including: Our competitors may: Any of these factors, alone or in combination, could cause us to have difficulty maintaining or increasing sales of our products. If we fail to retain the employees and independent agents and distributors upon whom we rely heavily to market our products, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. Our marketing success in the U.S. and abroad depends significantly upon our employees’, agents’ and distributors’ sales and service expertise in the marketplace.  Many of these agents have developed professional relationships with existing and potential customers because of the agents’ detailed knowledge of products and instruments.  A loss of a significant number of our agents could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, our products may become obsolete over time, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. Demand for our products may change, in certain cases, in ways we may not anticipate because of: Without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, our products may become obsolete over time.  If that happens, our revenue and operating results would suffer.  The success of our new product offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to: 20 In addition, new materials, product designs and surgical techniques that we develop may not be accepted quickly, in some or all markets, because of, among other factors: Moreover, innovations generally require a substantial investment in research and development before we can determine their commercial viability and we may not have the financial resources necessary to fund the production.  In addition, even if we are able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of our products, these enhancements or new generations of products may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. If third-party payors decline to reimburse our customers for our products or reduce reimbursement levels, the demand for our products may decline and our ability to sell our products profitably may be harmed. We sell our products and services to hospitals, doctors, dentists and other healthcare providers, which receive reimbursement for the healthcare services provided to their patients from third-party payors, such as domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs.  These third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a product or service used in a procedure was not in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication.  Third-party payors may also decline to reimburse for experimental procedures and products. In addition, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services.  If third-party payors reduce reimbursement levels or change reimbursement models for hospitals and other healthcare providers for our products, demand for our products may decline, or we may experience increased pressure to reduce the prices of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. We have also experienced downward pressure on product pricing and other effects of healthcare reform in our international markets.  For example, China has implemented a volume-based procurement process designed to decrease prices for medical devices and other products.  If key participants in government healthcare systems reduce the reimbursement levels for our products, including through political changes or transitions, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. We are subject to cost containment measures in the United States and other countries, resulting in pricing pressures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and cash flows. Initiatives to limit the growth of general healthcare expenses and hospital costs are ongoing in the markets in which we do business. These initiatives are sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector and include price regulation and competitive pricing. For example, China has implemented a volume-based procurement process designed to decrease prices for certain medical devices and other products, which has in the past resulted in, and could in the future result in, reduced margins on covered devices and products, required renegotiation of distributor arrangements, and incurrence of inventory-related charges.  Pricing pressure has also increased due to continued consolidation among healthcare providers, trends toward managed care, the shift toward governments becoming the primary payors of healthcare expenses, reductions in reimbursement levels and government laws and regulations relating to reimbursement and pricing generally. In addition, many customers for our products have formed group purchasing organizations in an effort to contain costs.  Group purchasing organizations negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a group purchasing organization’s affiliated hospitals and other members.  If we are not one of the providers selected by a group purchasing organization, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to purchase our products, and, if the group purchasing organization has negotiated a strict compliance contract for another manufacturer’s products, we may be precluded from making 21 sales to members of the group purchasing organization for the duration of the contractual arrangement.  Our failure to respond to the cost-containment efforts of group purchasing organizations may cause us to lose market share to our competitors and could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Financial, Credit and Liquidity Risks We incurred substantial additional indebtedness in connection with previous mergers and acquisitions and may not be able to meet all of our debt obligations, and the phase-out, replacement or unavailability of LIBOR and/or other interest rate benchmarks could adversely affect our indebtedness. We incurred substantial additional indebtedness in connection with previous mergers and acquisitions.  At December 31, 2021, our total indebtedness was $7.1 billion, as compared to $1.4 billion at December 31, 2014 .  As of December 31, 2021, our debt service principal obligations (excluding interest, leases and equipment notes), during the next 12 months are expected to be $1.6 billion.  As a result of the increase in our debt, demands on our cash resources have increased.  The increased level of debt could, among other things: In addition, the interest rates applicable to certain of our debt obligations are based on a fluctuating rate of interest determined by reference to the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR” or “LIBO rate”).  Any increase in interest rates applicable to our debt obligations would increase our cost of borrowing and could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  Further, in July 2017, the U.K.’s Financial Conduct Authority (the “FCA”), which regulates LIBOR, announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit rates to the ICE Benchmark Administration Limited.  On March 5, 2021, the FCA publicly announced publication of all non-U.S. dollar denominated LIBO rate settings, as well as the 1-week and 2-month U.S. dollar denominated LIBO rate, will permanently cease as of December 31, 2021, and that publication of the overnight and 12-month U.S. dollar denominated LIBO rate settings will permanently cease after June 30, 2023. In addition, the FCA announced that immediately after June 30, 2023, the 1-month, 3-month and 6-month U.S. dollar LIBO rates will cease to be provided or, subject to the FCA’s consideration of the case, may be provided on a synthetic basis and no longer be representative of the underlying market and economic reality that they are intended to measure and that representativeness will not be restored. The dates announced by the FCA may change or other administrators of LIBO rates and/or regulators may take further action that could change or otherwise impact the availability and characteristics of LIBO rates, currencies and tenors.  The credit agreements governing our debt provide a mechanism for determining alternative rates of interest using customary hardwired rate replacement provisions which establish a waterfall approach for establishment of a replacement benchmark interest rate in the event that LIBO rates are unavailable, subject to spread adjustments to be determined with reference to the recommendations of relevant governmental bodies or, in certain circumstances, evolving or then-prevailing market conventions for determining or calculating such spread adjustment for U.S. dollar denominated syndicated credit facilities. Any alternative, successor, or replacement rate may not be similar to, or produce the same value or economic equivalence of, the LIBO rate or have the same volume or liquidity as did the LIBO rate prior to its discontinuance or unavailability, which may increase our overall interest expense on unhedged variable rate indebtedness which is currently based on the LIBO rate. We will continue to monitor the situation and address the potential reference rate changes in future debt obligations that we may incur.  Accordingly, the potential effect of the phase-out, replacement or unavailability of LIBOR, or the unavailability of any other interest rate benchmark such as EURIBOR or TIBOR, on our cost of capital cannot yet be determined.  Further, the use of an alternative base rate or a benchmark replacement rate as a basis for 22 calculating interest with respect to any outstanding variable rate indebtedness could lead to an increase in the interest we pay and a corresponding increase in our costs of capital or otherwise have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may have additional tax liabilities. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and many foreign jurisdictions.  Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes.  In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.  We are regularly under audit by tax authorities.  Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals.  The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. Changes in the tax laws of the jurisdictions where we do business, including an increase in tax rates or an adverse change in the treatment of an item of income or expense, could result in a material increase in our tax expense.  For example, changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise as a result of the “base erosion and profit shifting” project undertaken by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”).  The OECD, which represents a coalition of member countries, has recommended changes to numerous long-standing tax principles.  These changes, as adopted by countries, could increase tax uncertainty and may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The proposed Build Back Better Act or similar legislation, if enacted, could lead to changes in tax laws that could negatively impact our effective tax rate. The Build Back Better Act proposed an increase in the U.S. Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”) foreign minimum tax rate from 10.5% to 15%, assessing the GILTI tax on a per country basis, reduction of the Foreign-Derived Intangible Income tax benefit, and disallowance of certain corporate interest expense. If any or all of these (or similar) proposals are ultimately enacted into law, in whole or in part, they could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If our independent agents and distributors are characterized as employees, we would be subject to additional tax and other liabilities. We structure our relationships with independent agents and distributors in a manner that we believe results in an independent contractor relationship, not an employee relationship. Although we believe that our independent agents and distributors are properly characterized as independent contractors, tax or other regulatory authorities may in the future challenge our characterization of these relationships. Further, we have been subject to lawsuits challenging the characterization of these relationships in recent years. Changes in classification from independent contractor to employee can result in a change to various requirements associated with the payment of wages, tax withholding, and the provision of unemployment, health, and other traditional employer-employee related benefits. If regulatory authorities or state, federal or foreign courts were to determine that our independent agents or distributors are employees, and not independent contractors, we would be required to withhold income taxes, to withhold and pay social security, Medicare and similar taxes and to pay unemployment and other related payroll taxes. We would also be liable for unpaid past taxes and subject to penalties. As a result, any determination that our independent agents and distributors are our employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Future material impairments in the carrying value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, would negatively affect our operating results. Goodwill and intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets.  At December 31, 2021, we had $ 9.2 billion in goodwill and $ 6.3 billion of intangible assets.  The goodwill results from our acquisition activity and represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired.  We assess at least annually whether events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be recoverable.  As discussed further in Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements, in the first quarter of 2020, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $612.0 million as a result of the adverse impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic and a change in our reportable segments, and in the second quarter of 2021 and 2020, we recorded $16.3 million and $33.0 million, respectively, of in-process research and development (“IPR&D”) intangible asset impairments on certain IPR&D projects .  If the operating performance at one or more of our reporting units falls significantly below current levels, including if elective surgical procedures are deferred longer than our current expectations due to the COVID-19 pandemic, if competing or alternative technologies emerge, if 23 market conditions or future cash flow estimates for one or more of our businesses decline, or as a result of restructuring initiatives pursuant to which we reorganize our reporting units, we could be required to record additional impairment charges.  Any write-off of a material portion of our goodwill or unamortized intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations. Global Operational Risks We conduct a significant amount of our sales activity outside of the U.S., which subjects us to additional business risks and may cause our profitability to decline due to increased costs. We sell our products in more than 100 countries and derived approximately 40 percent of our net sales in 2021 from outside the U.S.  We intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales internationally, including in emerging markets, which could expose us to additional risks associated with international sales and operations.  Our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: Violations of foreign laws or regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. We are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which can increase our costs, cause our profitability to decline and expose us to counterparty risks. A substantial portion of our foreign revenues is generated in Europe and Japan.  The U.S. Dollar value of our foreign-generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations.  Significant increases in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to the Euro, the Japanese Yen, the Swiss Franc or other currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  Although we address currency risk management through regular operating and financing activities, and, on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial instruments, those actions may not prove to be fully effective or may create additional financial obligations for us.  Further, if the counterparties to the derivative financial instrument transactions fail to honor their obligations due to financial distress or otherwise, we would be exposed to potential losses or the inability to recover anticipated gains from those transactions. 24 Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risks We are subject to costly and complex laws and governmental regulations relating to the development, design, product standards, packaging, advertising, promotion, postmarket surveillance, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products, non-compliance with which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our global regulatory environment is increasingly stringent, unpredictable and complex. The products we design, develop, manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other supranational, national, federal, regional, state and local governmental authorities.  The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and clearances to market these products can be costly and time consuming and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all.  Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals for future products could result in delayed realization of product revenues or in substantial additional costs. Both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under FDA regulations and other supranational, national, federal, regional, state and local requirements globally.  Compliance with these requirements, including the QSR, recordkeeping regulations, labeling and promotional requirements and adverse event reporting regulations, is subject to continual review and is monitored rigorously through periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulators, which may result in observations (such as on Form 483), and in some cases warning letters, that require corrective action, or other forms of enforcement.  If the FDA or another regulator were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our products are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, they could ban such products, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded products, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of payment of such products, refuse to grant pending premarket approval applications, refuse to provide certificates for exports, and/or require us to notify healthcare professionals and others that the products present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health.  F urthermore, the FDA strictly regulates the promotional claims that we may make about approved or cleared products.  If the FDA determines that we have marketed or promoted a product for off-label use—uses other than those indicated on the labeling cleared by the FDA—we could be subject to fines, injunctions or other penalties. The FDA or other regulators may also impose operating restrictions, including a ceasing of operations at one or more facilities, enjoin and restrain certain violations of applicable law pertaining to our products, seizure of products and assess civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees or us.  The FDA or other regulators could also issue a corporate warning letter or a recidivist warning letter or negotiate the entry of a consent decree of permanent injunction with us, and/or recommend prosecution.  Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively manufacturing, marketing and selling our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In August 2018, we received a warning letter from the FDA related to observed non-conformities with current good manufacturing practice requirements of the QSR at our Warsaw North Campus manufacturing facility.  As of February 25, 2022, this warning letter remained pending.  Until the violations are corrected, we may become subject to additional regulatory action by the FDA as described above, the FDA may refuse to grant premarket approval applications and/or the FDA may refuse to grant export certificates, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Additional information regarding these and other FDA regulatory matters can be found in Note 21 to our consolidated financial statements. Governmental regulations outside the U.S. continue to become increasingly stringent and complex.  In the EU, for example, the MDR became effective in May 2021 and includes significant additional premarket and post- market requirements.  Complying with the requirements of this regulation requires us to incur significant expense.  Additionally, the availability of EU notified body services certified to the new requirements is limited, which may delay the marketing approval for some of our products under the MDR.  Any such delays, or any failure to meet the requirements of the new regulation, could adversely impact our business in the EU and other regions that tie their product registrations to the EU requirements.  Similarly, the separation of states from participation in the EU, such as through the cessation of the UK’s membership in the EU (commonly known as “Brexit”) and the separation of the Swiss and EU medical product markets with the adoption of MDR (commonly referred to as “Swexit”), may result in further regulatory risk and complexity as the former EU member or participant state establishes separate laws and regulations governing medical products. Our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, such as the International Standards Organization.  If we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our business could be harmed. 25 If we fail to comply with healthcare fraud and abuse or data privacy and security laws and regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The sales, marketing and pricing of products and relationships that medical products companies have with healthcare providers are under increased scrutiny around the world. Our industry is subject to various laws and regulations pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including the False Claims Act, the Anti-Kickback Statute, the Stark law, the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and similar laws and regulations in the U.S. and around the world.  In addition, we are subject to various laws concerning anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters (including the FCPA), sales to countries or persons subject to economic sanctions and other matters affecting our international operations.  Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the U.S., exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Administration health programs.  These laws are administered by, among others, the DOJ, the OIG-HHS, the SEC, the OFAC, the Bureau of Industry and Security of the U.S. Department of Commerce and state attorneys general. We are also subject to federal, state and international data privacy and security laws and regulations that govern the collection, use, disclosure, transfer, storage, disposal and protection of health-related and other personal information.  The FDA has issued guidance to which we may be subject concerning data security for medical devices.  The FDA and the DHS have also issued urgent safety communications regarding cybersecurity vulnerabilities of certain medical devices, which vulnerabilities may apply to some of our current or future devices. In addition, certain of our affiliates are subject to privacy, security and breach notification regulations promulgated under HIPAA.  HIPAA governs the use, disclosure, and security of protected health information by HIPAA “covered entities” and their “business associates.”  Covered entities are health plans, health care clearinghouses and health care providers that engage in specific types of electronic transactions.  A business associate is any person or entity (other than members of a covered entity’s workforce) that performs a service on behalf of a covered entity involving the use or disclosure of protected health information.  HHS (through the Office for Civil Rights) has direct enforcement authority against covered entities and business associates with regard to compliance with HIPAA regulations. On December 10, 2020, HHS issued an NPR to modify the HIPAA privacy rule.  Separately, HHS (through the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology) issued a new rule, which took effect on April 5, 2021, that limits “blocking” of electronic health information. We intend to monitor both the NPR and the “information blocking” rule and assess their impact on the use of data in our business. In addition to the FDA guidance and HIPAA regulations described above, a number of U.S. states have also enacted data privacy and security laws and regulations that govern the collection, use, disclosure, transfer, storage, disposal, and protection of personal information, such as social security numbers, medical and financial information and other personal information.  These laws and regulations may be more restrictive and not preempted by U.S. federal laws.  For example, several U.S. territories and all 50 states now have data breach laws that require timely notification to individuals, and at times regulators, the media or credit reporting agencies, if a company has experienced the unauthorized access or acquisition of personal information.  Other state laws include the CCPA, which took effect on January 1, 2020.  The CCPA, among other things, contains new disclosure obligations for businesses that collect personal information about California residents and affords those individuals numerous rights relating to their personal information that may affect our ability to use personal information or share it with our business partners.  A second law in California, the CPRA, passed via a ballot referendum in November 2020.  The CPRA expands the scope of the CCPA and establishes a new California Privacy Protection Agency that will enforce the law and issue regulations.  The CPRA is scheduled to take effect on January 1, 2023, with a lookback to January 1, 2022.  Other states have considered and/or enacted similar privacy laws.  We will continue to monitor and assess the impact of these state laws, which may impose substantial penalties for violations, impose significant costs for investigations and compliance, allow private class-action litigation and carry significant potential liability for our business. The legislative and regulatory framework for privacy and data protection issues worldwide is rapidly evolving as countries continue to adopt privacy and data security laws.  Outside of the U.S., data protection laws, including the GDPR in the EU (“EU GDPR”) and the UK (“UK GDPR”), the LGPD in Brazil, and the Personal Information Protection Law (“PIPL”) in China, also apply to our operations in those countries in which we provide services to our customers. The UK GDPR and EU GDPR impose, among other things, data protection requirements that include strict obligations and restrictions on the ability to collect, analyze and transfer UK and EU personal data, a requirement for prompt notice of data breaches to data subjects and supervisory authorities in certain circumstances, and possible substantial fines for any violations (including possible fines for certain violations of up to the greater of 20 million Euros or 4% of total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year under the EU GDPR, and up to the greater of 17.5 million Pounds or 4% of total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year under the UK GDPR ).  The issue of new standard contractual clauses (“SCCs”) governing cross-border data transfers between controllers and processors by the EU Commission, in conjunction with related requirements on 26 conducting data transfer impact assessments in respect of cross-border data transfers from the EU and the UK, may involve an increase in our costs of compliance as we transition to those SCCs and subject us to increased scrutiny by EU and UK regulators . The PIPL, which took effect on November 1, 2021, shares many similarities with the EU GDPR.  This includes extraterritorial reach, strict restrictions on transfer of personal information (including in certain situations data localization or prior certification/authorization requirements), compliance obligations and sanctions for non-compliance (of up to 5% of annual turnover or 50 million Yuan).  It also seeks to impose additional requirements not currently contemplated under the EU GDPR.  The PIPL may increase our costs of compliance, subject us to enhanced scrutiny from Chinese regulators and affect our cross-border data transfers. The interpretation and enforcement of the laws and regulations described above are uncertain and subject to change, and may require substantial costs to monitor and implement compliance with any additional requirements.  Failure to comply with U.S. and international data protection laws and regulations could result in government enforcement actions (which could include substantial civil and/or criminal penalties), private litigation and/or adverse publicity and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Pending and future product liability claims and litigation could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations and impair our reputation. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices.  In the ordinary course of business, we are the subject of product liability lawsuits alleging that component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information resulted in an unsafe condition or injury to patients.  As discussed further in Note 21 to our consolidated financial statements, we are defending product liability lawsuits relating to the Durom ® Acetabular Component (“Durom Cup”), certain products within the M/L Taper and M/L Taper with Kinectiv ® Technology hip stems and Versys ® Femoral Head implants, and the M2a-Magnum TM hip system.  We are also currently defending a number of other product liability lawsuits and claims related to various other products.  Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, can be costly to defend.  Product liability lawsuits and claims, safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability to attract and retain customers. We are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights, and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and other proprietary rights against others. Claims of intellectual property infringement and litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights are commonplace in our industry and are frequently time consuming and costly.  At any given time, we may be involved as either plaintiff or defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time.  While it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent and other intellectual property litigation, such litigation has in the past resulted in, and could in the future result in, our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and proprietary rights against others, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology, processes, methodologies and information.  We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws and nondisclosure, license, assignment and confidentiality arrangements to establish, maintain and protect our proprietary rights, as well as the intellectual property rights of third parties whose assets we license.  However, the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights, and the rights of those from whom we license intellectual property, may not be adequate to prevent unauthorized use, misappropriation or theft of our intellectual property. Further, our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in patents being issued to us, patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the future may be challenged or circumvented by competitors, and such patents may be found invalid, unenforceable or insufficiently broad to protect our technology or to provide us with any competitive advantage.  Third parties could obtain patents that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and the required licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all.  We also cannot be certain that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information. In addition, intellectual property laws differ in various jurisdictions in which we operate and are subject to change at any time, which could further restrict our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights.  In particular, a portion of our revenues is derived from jurisdictions where adequately protecting intellectual property rights may prove more challenging or impossible.  We may also not be able to detect unauthorized uses or take timely and effective steps to remedy unauthorized conduct.  To prevent or respond to unauthorized uses of our 27 intellectual property, we might be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation or other proceedings and we may not ultimately prevail.  Any failure to establish, maintain or protect our intellectual property or proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We are involved in legal proceedings that may result in adverse outcomes. In addition to intellectual property and product liability claims and lawsuits, we are involved in various commercial and securities litigation and claims and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business.  For example, as discussed further in Note 21 to our consolidated financial statements, there have been four shareholder derivative actions filed purportedly on our behalf against certain of our current and former directors and officers and certain former stockholders of ours who sold shares of our common stock in secondary public offerings in 2016, alleging breaches of fiduciary duties and insider trading, based on allegations that we made materially false and/or misleading statements and/or omissions about our compliance with FDA regulations and our ability to continue to accelerate our organic revenue growth rate in the second half of 2016 . Although we believe there are substantial defenses in these matters, litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management’s view of these matters may change in the future.  Given the uncertain nature of legal proceedings generally, we are not able in all cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome.  We could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period. Risks Related to Our Organizational Documents and Jurisdiction of Incorporation Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could delay or prevent a change of control. Certain provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, our Restated By-Laws and the Delaware General Corporation Law may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer or prevent a merger, acquisition, tender offer, takeover attempt or other change of control transaction that a stockholder might consider in its best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by our stockholders. These provisions provide for, among other things: These anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third party’s offer may be considered beneficial by many of our stockholders.  As a result, our stockholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. Our Restated By-Laws designate certain Delaware courts as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees. Our Restated By-Laws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, a state court located within the State of Delaware (or, if no state court located in the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware) will be the sole and exclusive forum for any stockholder (including any beneficial owner) to bring (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or other employees arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law or our Restated Certificate of Incorporation or our Restated By-Laws, as either may be amended from time to time, or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or other employees governed by the internal affairs doctrine.  Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our common stock is deemed to have received notice of and consented to the foregoing provisions.  This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and 28 employees.  Alternatively, if a court were to find this choice of forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the corresponding notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Certain percentages presented in this discussion and analysis are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar amounts and therefore may not recalculate from the rounded numbers used for disclosure purposes.  The following discussion, analysis and comparisons generally focus on the operating results for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020.  Discussion, analysis and comparisons of the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. On February 5, 2021, we announced our intention to pursue a plan to spin off our Spine and Dental businesses into a new public company.  The expected completion date of the spinoff of ZimVie is March 1, 2022.  The following discussion and analysis includes these businesses in our discussion of financial condition and results of operations. EXECUTIVE LEVEL OVERVIEW Impact of the COVID-19 Global Pandemic Our results continue to be impacted by the COVID-19 global pandemic.  The vast majority of our net sales are derived from products used in elective surgical procedures.  As COVID-19 rapidly started to spread throughout the world in early 2020, our net sales decreased dramatically as countries took precautions to prevent the spread of the virus with lockdowns and stay-at-home measures and as hospitals deferred elective surgical procedures.  The timing, level and sustainability of the recovery of elective surgical procedures has been difficult to predict, as a number of factors are involved, including which geographies are affected and the different measures governments and healthcare systems take in response to the virus in those areas.  In the second half of 2021, the highly transmissible Delta and Omicron variants resulted in further deferrals of elective surgical procedures.  Additionally, we believe that staffing shortages at hospitals are also contributing to the deferral of elective surgical procedures. 2021 Financial Highlights In 2021, our net sales increased by 11.6 percent compared to 2020 primarily due to the significant deferral of elective surgical procedures at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020.  Our net earnings were $401.6 million in 2021 compared to a net loss of $138.9 million in 2020.  In 2021, we returned to profitability compared to a net loss in 2020, primarily due to higher net sales combined with fixed operating costs that did not increase proportionally to the increase in net sales, and a reduction in operating expenses including goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges and certain fixed overhead and hourly production worker labor expenses.  In 2020, we recognized $645.0 million of goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges primarily due to the forecasted impact of COVID-19 on our operating results.  In the second quarter of 2020, we also temporarily suspended or limited production at certain manufacturing facilities, resulting in additional expense recognized in cost of products sold that related to certain fixed overhead costs and hourly production worker labor expenses that are included in the cost of inventory when these facilities are operating at normal capacity.  The additional expense for suspended and limited production continued throughout 2020 and while we did recognize similar charges in 2021, they were lower than the 2020 charges.  These reduced expenses in 2021 were partially offset by a charge for the early extinguishment of debt, higher research and development expenses, including certain agreements we entered into to gain access to or acquire third-party in-process R&D projects, higher consulting and professional service expenses related to the planned spinoff of our Spine and Dental businesses, and higher litigation-related charges. 2022 Outlook We believe the COVID-19 variant surges and continuing staffing shortages that occurred late in 2021 will continue to negatively impact our net sales in 2022.  As previously mentioned, we expect to spin off our Spine and Dental businesses on March 1, 2022.  We expect to apply discontinued operations accounting after the separation, which will require us to recast our prior period results to reflect both continuing and discontinued operations.  Accordingly, it is difficult to provide forward-looking information that is comparable to our historical results until the recasting of prior periods is complete. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS We analyze sales by three geographies, the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific, and by the following product categories: Knees; Hips; S.E.T.; Spine & Dental; and Other.  This sales analysis differs from our reportable operating segments, which are based upon our senior management organizational structure and how we allocate 32 resources towards achieving operating profit goals.  We analyze sales by geography because the underlying market trends in any particular geography tend to be similar across product categories and because we primarily sell the same products in all geographies. Net Sales by Geography The following tables present net sales by geography and the components of the percentage changes (dollars in millions): “Foreign Exchange” used in the tables in this report represents the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on sales. Net Sales by Product Category The following tables present net sales by product category and the components of the percentage changes (dollars in millions): 33 The following table presents net sales by product category by geography for our Knees and Hips product categories, which represent our most significant product categories (dollars in millions): Demand (Volume/Mix) Trends Changes in volume and mix of product sales had a positive effect of 12.1 percent on year-over-year sales during the year ended December 31, 2021.  Volume trends were positive in 2021 as elective surgical procedures were not as significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic as compared to 2020 when there were significant deferrals at the beginning of the pandemic.  However, 2021 did experience periods with higher deferrals of elective surgical procedures, most notably at the beginning of 2021 before vaccines were widely available and during surges of the Delta and Omicron virus variants.  Accordingly, net sales in 2021 did not return to the pre-pandemic levels of 2019. Based upon country dynamics, volume changes varied by region in 2021.  The volume increases in 2021 were largely a product of how much the COVID-19 pandemic negatively affected the various regions in 2020.  In EMEA, stay-at-home measures were far more prevalent than other geographies in 2020 and therefore volume increases were greater in this region in 2021 as elective surgical procedures resumed.  In the Americas, elective surgical procedures in the U.S. varied from state-to-state depending on local infection rates and preventative measures in 2020.  In Asia Pacific, containment of the COVID-19 virus varied from country-to-country in 2020, but overall some of our larger markets in this region were not as affected in 2020 as other locations.  Additionally, in Asia Pacific in 2021, China sales were negatively impacted from a combination of variables related to the implementation of a nationwide volume-based procurement (“VBP”) process.  The China VBP had a negative effect on volume due to inventory reductions by distributors and short-term deferral of procedures as patients waited to have a surgical procedure performed until after VBP pricing is effective. Pricing Trends Global selling prices had a negative effect of 1.8 percent on year-over-year sales during 2021.  In the majority of countries in which we operate, we continue to experience pricing pressure from governmental healthcare cost containment efforts and from local hospitals and health systems.  Pricing in 2021 was also negatively affected by the anticipated China VBP implementation due to ongoing pricing negotiations with distributor partners. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates In 2021, changes in foreign currency exchange rates had a positive effect of 1.3 percent on year-over-year sales.  If foreign currency exchange rates remain at levels consistent with recent rates, we estimate they will have a negative impact of approximately 2.0 percent on sales in 2022 for the full year. 34 Estimated Market Trends The following table presents estimated* 2021 global market information (dollars in billions): Expenses as a Percent of Net Sales Cost of Products Sold and Intangible Asset Amortization We calculate gross profit as net sales minus cost of products sold and intangible asset amortization.  Our gross margin percentage is gross profit divided by net sales.  The following table sets forth the factors that contributed to the gross margin changes in each of 2021 and 2020 compared to the prior year: 35 The increase in gross margin percentage in 2021 compared to 2020 was primarily due to lower excess and obsolete inventory charges and lower impact from intangible asset amortization as well as the fact that 2020 had higher charges from certain fixed overhead costs and hourly production worker labor expenses when we temporarily suspended or limited production at certain manufacturing facilities.  Intangible asset amortization and excess and obsolete inventory charges did not increase ratably with the increase our net sales in 2021 and therefore were a positive impact to our gross margin percentage.  These favorable items were partially offset by hedge losses recognized in the current year as part of our hedging program compared to hedge gains in the prior year, and lower average selling prices. Operating Expenses Research & development (“R&D”) expenses increased in both amount and as a percentage of net sales in 2021 compared to 2020 primarily due to reengaging in R&D projects in 2021, including the implementation of the European Union Medical Device Regulation (“EU MDR”), compared to 2020 when COVID-19 caused delays in project spending.  In addition to reengaging in projects, in 2021 we also entered into certain agreements to gain access to or acquire third-party in-process R&D projects that resulted in charges of $65.0 million. Selling, general & administrative (“SG&A”) expenses increased in 2021 compared to 2020, but decreased as a percentage of net sales.  SG&A expenses increased primarily due to higher variable selling and distribution costs related to increased net sales, higher performance-based compensation in the current year as similar costs were reduced in the prior year due to the effect COVID-19 had on our operating results, higher litigation-related charges, and increased travel and medical training and education costs as we have partially resumed these activities. Despite the increase in SG&A expenses, SG&A as a percentage of net sales declined in 2021 when compared to 2020 as our SG&A expenses included many fixed costs that did not increase ratably with the increase in net sales in the 2021 period. In 2021, we recognized an intangible asset impairment charge of $16.3 million.  In 2020, we recognized goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges of $645.0 million, including charges of $470.0 million and $142.0 million related to our EMEA and Dental reporting units, respectively, in the first quarter of 2020.  For more information regarding these charges, see Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements. In December 2021, our management approved a restructuring program to reorganize our operations in preparation for the planned spinoff of ZimVie with an objective of reducing costs.  In December 2019, our Board of Directors approved, and we initiated, a restructuring program with an objective of reducing costs to allow us to invest in higher priority growth opportunities.  We recognized expenses of $129.1 million and $116.9 million in the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, attributable to restructuring and other cost reduction initiatives, primarily related to employee termination benefits, sales agent contract terminations, and consulting and project management expenses associated with these programs.  For more information regarding these expenses, see Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. Our quality remediation expenses increased slightly to $53.1 million in 2021 compared to $50.9 million in 2020.    We continue to incur quality remediation expenses to complete our remediation milestones that address inspectional observations on Form 483 and a Warning Letter issued by the FDA at our Warsaw North Campus facility, among other matters. Acquisition, integration, divestiture and related expenses increased to $79.8 million in 2021 compared to $23.8 million in 2020 due primarily to consulting and other professional service expenses related to the planned spinoff of our Spine and Dental businesses and integration expenses related to the acquisitions made in 2020. Other Income (Expense), net, Interest Expense, net, Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt and Income Taxes In 2021, our other income, net was lower than in 2020 primarily due to losses recognized from changes to the fair value of our equity investments in 2021 compared to gains recognized in the prior year and lower pension-related gains recognized in 2021 compared to 2020. Interest expense, net, decreased in 2021 when compared to 2020 primarily due to debt paydown and fixed-to-variable interest rate swaps we entered into in 2021. In 2021, we recognized a $165.1 million loss on the early extinguishment of debt.  See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on this loss. 36 Our effective tax rate (“ETR”) on earnings before income taxes was 3.9 percent and 49.9 percent for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.  In 2021, this was primarily driven by the foreign rate differential as our foreign locations have lower tax rates and favorable return-to-provision changes in estimate offset by unfavorable tax rate changes. In 2020, the income tax benefit was driven by changes in estimates to uncertain tax positions, favorable tax audit settlements, jurisdictional mix of earnings and losses, and a $43.0 million tax benefit from Switzerland’s Federal Act on Tax Reform and AHV Financing (“TRAF”).  Other significant impacts to the ETR in 2020 included the $612.0 million goodwill impairment charge, which resulted in a loss before taxes, but had no corresponding tax benefit. Absent discrete tax events, we expect our future ETR will be lower than the U.S. corporate income tax rate of 21.0 percent due to our mix of earnings between U.S. and foreign locations, which have lower corporate income tax rates.  Our ETR in future periods could also potentially be impacted by: changes in our mix of pre-tax earnings; changes in tax rates, tax laws or their interpretation, including the European Union rules on state aid; the outcome of various federal, state and foreign audits; and the expiration of certain statutes of limitations.  Currently, we cannot reasonably estimate the impact of these items on our financial results. Segment Operating Profit In 2021, the Americas Orthopedics, EMEA and Americas Spine and Global Dental operating segments’ operating profit and operating profit as a percentage of net sales increased when compared to 2020 due the recovery of elective surgical procedures when compared to the deferrals that occurred during the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020.  These operating segments have various fixed costs that do not fluctuate proportionally to net sales changes, which results in improved operating profit as a percentage of net sales as net sales increase.  In the Asia Pacific operating segment, while operating profit increased due to higher net sales in 2021 when compared to 2020, operating profit as a percentage of net sales decreased.  The decrease in operating profit as a percentage of net sales was primarily due the effect of the China VBP which had a significant negative effect on pricing in 2021 without a corresponding reduction in cost of products sold.  In addition, the amount of our foreign currency exchange rate hedge gains recognized in this operating segment in 2021 was lower than the amount recognized in 2020. Non-GAAP Operating Performance Measures We use financial measures that differ from financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP to evaluate our operating performance.  These non-GAAP financial measures exclude, as applicable, certain inventory and manufacturing-related charges including charges to discontinue certain product lines; intangible asset amortization; goodwill and intangible asset impairment; restructuring and other cost reduction initiative expenses; quality remediation expenses; acquisition, integration, divestiture and related expenses; certain litigation gains and charges; expenses to establish initial compliance with the EU MDR; expenses related to certain R&D agreements; loss on early extinguishment of debt; other charges; any related effects on our income tax provision associated with these items; the effect of Switzerland tax reform; other certain tax adjustments; and, with respect to earnings per share information, provide for the effect of dilutive shares assuming net earnings in a period of a reported net loss.  We use these non-GAAP financial measures internally to evaluate the performance of the business.  Additionally, we believe these non-GAAP measures provide meaningful incremental information to investors to consider when evaluating our performance.  We believe these measures offer the ability to make period-to-period comparisons that are not impacted by certain items that can cause dramatic changes in reported income but that do not impact the fundamentals of our operations.  The non-GAAP measures enable the evaluation of operating results and trend analysis by allowing a reader to better identify operating trends that may otherwise be masked or distorted by these 37 types of items that are excluded from the non-GAAP measures.  In addition, adjusted diluted earnings per share is used as a performance metric in our incentive compensation programs . The following are reconciliations from our GAAP net earnings and diluted earnings per share to our non-GAAP adjusted net earnings and non-GAAP adjusted diluted earnings per share used for internal management purposes (in millions, except per share amounts): 38 39 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of December 31, 2021, we had $478.5 million in cash and cash equivalents.  In addition, we had $1.0 billion available to borrow under a 364-day revolving credit agreement that matures on August 19, 2022, and $1.5 billion available under a five-year revolving facility that matures on August 20, 2026.  The terms of the 364-day revolving credit agreement and the 2021 five-year revolving facility are described further in Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. At the ZimVie spinoff date, we expect to receive approximately $500 million from ZimVie as partial consideration for the contribution of assets in connection with the separation.  Additionally, we will retain 19.7 percent of the outstanding shares of ZimVie common stock after the separation.  We intend to dispose of all of the ZimVie common stock after the distribution by exchanging such ZimVie common stock for Zimmer Biomet debt obligations over time. We believe that cash flows from operations, our cash and cash equivalents on hand, cash received from the spinoff of ZimVie and available borrowings under our revolving credit facilities will be sufficient to meet our ongoing liquidity requirements for at least the next twelve months.  However, due to the continued uncertainties related to the COVID-19 pandemic, it is possible our needs may change.  Further, there can be no assurance that, if needed, we will be able to secure additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. Sources of Liquidity Cash flows provided by operating activities were $1,499.2 million in 2021 compared to $1,204.5 million and $1,585.8 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively.  The increase in cash flows from operating activities in 2021 when compared to 2020 was primarily the result of higher net earnings in the 2021 period.  Additionally, in 2020 we terminated our accounts receivable purchase arrangements in the U.S. and Japan which we estimate negatively impacted operating cash flows by approximately $300 million. Cash flows used in investing activities were $503.6 million in 2021 compared to $613.8 million and $729.3 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively.  Instrument and property, plant and equipment additions reflected ongoing investments in our product portfolio and optimization of our manufacturing and logistics network.  In order to preserve cash, we prioritized investments in 2020 which resulted in lower investments in property, plant and equipment.  As further discussed in Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements, we made various acquisitions in 2020 requiring initial cash outlays of $235.5 million, net of acquired cash. Cash flows used in financing activities were $1,306.0 million in 2021.  In 2021, we issued senior notes and received $1,599.8 million in proceeds, which, along with cash on hand, were used to extinguish $1,993.2 million aggregate outstanding principal amount of our senior notes pursuant to cash tender offers for certain outstanding series of our senior notes, at a total reacquisition price of $2,154.8 million.  Additionally, we used cash on hand to redeem $500.0 million of other senior notes that matured in 2021.  W e also had deferred business combination payments of $145.0 million that were paid in 2021 under the terms of the purchase agreements. Cash flows used in financing activities were $421.8 million in 2020.  In 2020, we issued senior notes and received $1,497.1 million in proceeds, which were used to pay our $1,500.0 million senior notes at maturity on April 1, 2020.  Additionally, with cash flows generated from operations, in 2020 we redeemed $250.0 million of our floating rate senior notes that matured on March 19, 2021.  Further, the termination of certain accounts receivable purchase arrangements in 2020 resulted in $54.6 million of financing cash outflows to the purchasing financial institutions.  These outflows represent the amount of unremitted cash that we had collected on sold accounts receivable as of December 31, 2019 that was repaid in 2020. 40 We place our cash and cash equivalents in highly-rated financial institutions and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one entity.  We invest only in high-quality financial instruments in accordance with our internal investment policy. As of December 31, 2021, $450.2 million of our cash and cash equivalents were held in jurisdictions outside of the U.S.  Of this amount, $58.0 million is denominated in U.S. Dollars and, therefore, bears no foreign currency translation risk.  The balance of these assets is denominated in currencies of the various countries where we operate.  We intend to repatriate $5.0 to $6.0 billion of unremitted earnings in future years. Material Cash Requirements from Known Contractual and Other Obligations At December 31, 2021, we had outstanding debt of $7,068.8 million, of which $1,605.1 million was classified as current debt.  Of our current debt, $750.0 million of senior notes mature on April 1, 2022, $286.5 million of Japanese Yen denominated term loans mature on September 27, 2022, and $568.6 million of Euro denominated senior notes mature on December 13, 2022.  We believe we can satisfy these debt obligations with cash generated from our operations, cash received from the spinoff of ZimVie, by issuing new debt, and/or by borrowing on our revolving credit facilities.  We also estimate our interest payments will be $163.0 million in 2022 and continue to decline annually thereafter assuming we continue to pay down our debt as it matures and incur no additional borrowings. For additional information on our debt, including types of debt, maturity dates, interest rates, debt covenants and available revolving credit facilities, see Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. In February, May, August and December 2021, our Board of Directors declared cash dividends of $0.24 per share.  We expect to continue paying cash dividends on a quarterly basis; however, future dividends are subject to approval of the Board of Directors and may be adjusted as business needs or market conditions change. In February 2016, our Board of Directors authorized a $1.0 billion share repurchase program effective March 1, 2016, with no expiration date.  As of December 31, 2021, all $1.0 billion remained authorized. As discussed in Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements, we have a 2021 Restructuring Plan and a 2019 Restructuring Plan.  The 2021 Restructuring Plan is expected to result in total pre-tax restructuring charges of approximately $240 million, of which approximately $30 million was incurred through December 31, 2021.  We expect to reduce gross annual pre-tax operating expenses by approximately $210 million relative to the 2021 baseline expenses by the end of 2024 as program benefits under the 2021 Restructuring Plan are realized.  The 2019 Restructuring Plan is expected to result in total pre-tax restructuring charges of approximately $350 million to $400 million, of which approximately $225 million was incurred through December 31, 2021.  We expect to reduce gross annual pre-tax operating expenses by approximately $200 million to $300 million relative to the 2019 baseline expenses by the end of 2023 as program benefits under the 2019 Restructuring Plan are realized. As discussed in Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements, the IRS has issued proposed adjustments for years 2010 through 2012, as well as proposed adjustments for years 2013 through 2015, reallocating profits between certain of our U.S. and foreign subsidiaries.  We have disputed these proposed adjustments and intend to continue to vigorously defend our positions.  Although the ultimate timing for resolution of the disputed tax issues is uncertain, future payments may be significant to our operating cash flows. Under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, we have a $215.3 million liability remaining from a one-time tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of post-1986 untaxed foreign earnings and profits (“toll charge”) for the deemed repatriation of unremitted foreign earnings. This amount was recorded in non-current income tax liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2021. As discussed in Note 21 to our consolidated financial statements, we are involved in various litigation matters.  We estimate the total liabilities for all litigation matters was $420.5 million as of December 31, 2021.  We expect to pay these liabilities over the next few years. In the normal course of business, we enter into purchase commitments, primarily related to raw materials.  However, we do not believe these purchase commitments are material to the overall standing of our business or our liquidity. 41 We have entered into various agreements that may result in future payments dependent upon various events such as the achievement of certain product R&D milestones, sales milestones, or, at our discretion, maintenance of exclusive rights to distribute a product.  These estimated payments related to these agreements could range from $0 to $365 million. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The preparation of our financial statements is affected by the selection and application of accounting policies and methods, and also requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Critical accounting estimates are those that involve a significant level of estimation uncertainty and have had or are reasonably likely to have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We believe that the accounting estimates and assumptions described below involve significant subjectivity and judgment, and changes to such estimates or assumptions could have a material impact on our financial condition or operating results. Excess Inventory and Instruments - We must determine as of each balance sheet date how much, if any, of our inventory may ultimately prove to be unsaleable or unsaleable at our carrying cost.  Similarly, we must also determine if instruments on hand will be put to productive use or remain undeployed as a result of excess supply.  Accordingly, inventory and instruments are written down to their net realizable value.  To determine the appropriate net realizable value, we evaluate current stock levels in relation to historical and expected patterns of demand for all of our products and instrument systems and components.  The basis for the determination is generally the same for all inventory and instrument items and categories except for work‑in‑process inventory, which is recorded at cost.  Obsolete or discontinued items are generally destroyed and completely written off.  Management evaluates the need for changes to the net realizable values of inventory and instruments based on market conditions, competitive offerings and other factors on a regular basis. Income Taxes - Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities and reserves for unrecognized tax benefits reflect management’s best assessment of estimated future taxes to be paid.  We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions.  Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining the consolidated income tax expense. We estimate income tax expense and income tax liabilities and assets by taxable jurisdiction.  Realization of deferred tax assets in each taxable jurisdiction is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income sufficient to realize the benefits.  We evaluate deferred tax assets on an ongoing basis and provide valuation allowances unless we determine it is “more likely than not” that the deferred tax benefit will be realized. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations.  We are subject to regulatory review or audit in virtually all of those jurisdictions and those reviews and audits may require extended periods of time to resolve. We record our income tax provisions based on our knowledge of all relevant facts and circumstances, including existing tax laws, our experience with previous settlement agreements, the status of current examinations and our understanding of how the tax authorities view certain relevant industry and commercial matters. We recognize tax liabilities in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) guidance on income taxes and we adjust these liabilities when our judgment changes as a result of the evaluation of new information not previously available.  Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities.  These differences will be reflected as increases or decreases to income tax expense in the period in which they are determined. Commitments and Contingencies - We are involved in various ongoing proceedings, legal actions and claims arising in the normal course of doing business, including litigation related to product, labor and intellectual property.  We establish liabilities for loss contingencies when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.  Accruals for product liability and other claims are established with the assistance of internal and external legal counsel based on current information and historical settlement information for claims, related legal fees and for claims incurred but not reported. Goodwill and Intangible Assets - We evaluate the carrying value of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets annually, or whenever events or circumstances indicate that the fair value is below its carrying amount.  We evaluate 42 the carrying value of finite life intangible assets whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.  Significant assumptions are required to estimate the fair value of goodwill and intangible assets, most notably estimated future cash flows generated by these assets and risk-adjusted discount rates .  As such, these fair value measurements use significant unobservable inputs.  Changes to these assumptions could require us to record impairment charges on these assets. In our annual impairment test in the fourth quarter of 2021, all our reporting units exceeded their carrying values by more than 20 percent.  Fair value was determined using income and market approaches.  Fair value under the income approach was determined by discounting to present value the estimated future cash flows of the reporting units.  Significant assumptions are incorporated into the income approach, such as estimated growth rates, forecasted operating expenses and risk-adjusted discount rates.  Fair value under the market approach utilized the guideline public company methodology, which uses valuation indicators determined from other businesses that are similar to our reporting units. Future impairment in our reporting units could occur if the estimates used in the income and market approaches change.  If our estimates of profitability in the reporting unit decline, the fair value estimate under the income approach will decline.  Additionally, changes in the broader economic environment could cause changes to our estimated discount rates and comparable company valuation indicators, which may impact our estimated fair values.  Further, changes in foreign currency exchange rates could increase the cost of procuring inventory and services from foreign suppliers, which could reduce reporting unit profitability. As previously discussed, we expect to spin off our Spine and Dental businesses effective March 1, 2022.  At the separation date, we will be required to compare the carrying value of the assets disposed of in the spinoff to their fair value, and recognize impairment if the assets’ carrying value exceeds their fair value.  This impairment test is different than the test performed while these assets are being held and used.  The impairment test while the assets are being held and used is an undiscounted cash flows recoverability test while the separation date test is done at fair value, which may be estimated using discounted cash flows.  Therefore, the difference in impairment testing between assets being held and used and assets being disposed of could result in us recording an impairment charge at the separation date. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for information on how recent accounting pronouncements have affected or may affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.